UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021RELHLGP21523V022021
Trade Logo displayed belongs to Anil Dhirubhai Ambani rade Logo displayed belongs to Anil Dhirubhai Ambani 
Ventures Private Limited and used by Reliance General entures Private Limited and used by Reliance General 
Insurance Company Limited under License.Company Limited under License.
Registered Office & Corporate Office: Reliance Centre, Office & Corporate Office: Reliance Centre, 
thSouth Wing, 4 Floor, Off. Western Express Highway, South Wing, 4 Floor, Off. Western Express Highway, 
Santacruz (East), Mumbai - 400 055.(East), Mumbai - 400 055.
reliancegeneral.co.in | 1800 3009 (toll free ) |
Reliance General Insurance Company Limited.General Insurance Company Limited.
022 - 4890 3009 (Paid)
IRDAI Registration No. 103.Registration No. 103.
Corporate Identity No.: U66603MH2000PLC128300.Identity No.: U66603MH2000PLC128300.
RGI/MCOM/CO/GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS/ MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS/ 
Ver.0.1/151020.er.0.1/151020.
An ISO 9001:2015 Certified Company==ISO 9001:2015 Certified Company==
GROUP MEDICLAIM
POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (0) Break----------------
010202
The terms defined below have the meanings as ascribed to them below wherever they appear in this Policy and, where terms defined below have the meanings as ascribed to them below wherever they appear in this Policy and, where 
appropriate, references to the singular include references to the plural; references to the male include the female and references to the singular include references to the plural; references to the male include the female and 
references to any statutory enactment include subsequent changes to the same and vice versa.to any statutory enactment include subsequent changes to the same and vice versa.
  a. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital; or  a. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital; or 
 1. “Accident” is a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external visible and violent means.1. “Accident” is a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external visible and violent means.
 3. Ambulance means road vehicle operated by a licensed / authorized service provider and equipped 3. Ambulance means road vehicle operated by a licensed / authorized service provider and equipped 
for the transport and paramedical treatment of the person requiring medical attention.the transport and paramedical treatment of the person requiring medical attention.
                                                                            1  Preamble                                                                           1  Preamble 
 2. Any one illness means continuous period of illness and includes relapse within 45 days from the date of 2. Any one illness means continuous period of illness and includes relapse within 45 days from the date of 
last consultation with the Hospital/Nursing Home where treatment was taken.consultation with the Hospital/Nursing Home where treatment was taken.
  c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-patient healthcare facility of any recognized  c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-patient healthcare facility of any recognized 
system of medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the of medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the 
supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must comply with all the of a qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must comply with all the 
following criterion:
Group Mediclaim Policy Wordingsordings
WHEREAS the policyholder designated in the Schedule to this Group Mediclaim having by a proposal and declaration the policyholder designated in the Schedule to this Group Mediclaim having by a proposal and declaration 
together with any statement, report or other document which shall be the basis of the contract and shall be deemed to be with any statement, report or other document which shall be the basis of the contract and shall be deemed to be 
incorporated herein, has applied to Reliance General Insurance Company Limited (hereinafter called "the Company") for the insurance hereinafter set forth and paid appropriate ncorporated herein, has applied to Reliance General Insurance Company Limited (hereinafter called "the Company") for the insurance hereinafter set forth and paid appropriate 
premium for the period as specified in the Schedule.
 4. Authority means the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India established under sub 4. Authority means the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India established under sub 
section 1 of section 3 of the IRDA Act 1999. Act 1999.
NOW THIS POLICY WITNESSETH that subject to the terms, conditions, exclusions and definitions contained herein or THIS POLICY WITNESSETH that subject to the terms, conditions, exclusions and definitions contained herein or 
endorsed or otherwise expressed hereon the Company, undertakes, that if during the Policy Period as specified in the or otherwise expressed hereon the Company, undertakes, that if during the Policy Period as specified in the 
Schedule, any claim is incurred which becomes admissible and payable under this Policy then the Company shall pay for such any claim is incurred which becomes admissible and payable under this Policy then the Company shall pay for such 
claim, as per terms conditions and benefits and exclusions and the limit of Sum insured as set forth in this policy.as per terms conditions and benefits and exclusions and the limit of Sum insured as set forth in this policy.
 5. AYUSH Treatment refers to the medical and / or hospitalization treatments given under Ayurveda, 5. AYUSH Treatment refers to the medical and / or hospitalization treatments given under Ayurveda, 
Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems.oga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems.
  b. Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central Government/Central  b. Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central Government/Central 
Council of Indian Medicine/Central Council for Homeopathy; or of Indian Medicine/Central Council for Homeopathy; or 
  2  Definitions  2  Definitions 
 6. An AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical/surgical/para-surgical treatment procedures 6. An AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical/surgical/para-surgical treatment procedures 
and interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following:interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following:
   iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and   iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and 
making them accessible to the insurance them accessible to the insurance 
company’s authorized representative.s authorized representative.
  AYUSH Day Care Centre means and includes  AYUSH Day Care Centre means and includes 
Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary Health Health Centre (CHC), Primary Health 
Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or any (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or any 
such health centre which is registered with the local health centre which is registered with the local 
authorities, wherever applicable and having uthorities, wherever applicable and having 
facilities for carrying out treatment procedures and for carrying out treatment procedures and 
medical or surgical/para-surgical interventions or both or surgical/para-surgical interventions or both 
under the supervision of registered AYUSH Medical the supervision of registered AYUSH Medical 
Practitioner (s) on day care basis without in-patient (s) on day care basis without in-patient 
services and must comply with all the following and must comply with all the following 
criterion: 
  ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections  ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections 
as required and/or has equipped operation s required and/or has equipped operation 
theatre where surgical procedures are to be where surgical procedures are to be 
carried out; 
 8. "Bank Rate" means Bank Rate fixed by the Reserve 8. "Bank Rate" means Bank Rate fixed by the Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI) at the beginning of the financial of India (RBI) at the beginning of the financial 
year in which claims has fallen due.
   i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds;  i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds;
   ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner   ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner 
in charge round the clock; 
   iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as   iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as 
required and/or has equipped operation equired and/or has equipped operation 
theatre where surgical procedures are to be where surgical procedures are to be 
carried out; 
 7. AYUSH Day Care Centre:7. AYUSH Day Care Centre:
  i. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical  i. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical 
Practitioner(s) in charge; 
  (Explanation: Medical Practitioner referred in the  (Explanation: Medical Practitioner referred in the 
definition of “AYUSH Hospital” and “AYUSH Day Care of “AYUSH Hospital” and “AYUSH Day Care 
Centre” shall carry the same meaning as defined in shall carry the same meaning as defined in 
the definition of “Medical Practitioner” under Chapter I definition of “Medical Practitioner” under Chapter I 
of Guidelines) 
  AYUSH Hospitals referred above should also hold  AYUSH Hospitals referred above should also hold 
either pre-entry level certificate (or higher level of pre-entry level certificate (or higher level of 
certificate) issued by National Accreditation Board for issued by National Accreditation Board for 
Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) or State and Healthcare Providers (NABH) or State 
Level Certificate (or higher level of certificate) under Certificate (or higher level of certificate) under 
national Quality Assurance Standards (NQAS), issued Quality Assurance Standards (NQAS), issued 
by National Health Systems Resources Centre y National Health Systems Resources Centre 
(NHSRC).
 9. “Cashless Facility” means a facility extended 9. “Cashless Facility” means a facility extended 
by the company to the insured where the payments, the company to the insured where the payments, 
of the costs of treatment undergone by the f the costs of treatment undergone by the 
insured in accordance with the policy terms and in accordance with the policy terms and 
conditions, are directly made to the network provider are directly made to the network provider 
by the insurer to the extent of pre-authorization the insurer to the extent of pre-authorization 
approved.
  iii. Maintaining daily records of the patients and  iii. Maintaining daily records of the patients and 
making them accessible to the insurance aking them accessible to the insurance 
company’s authorized representative.s authorized representative.
UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGSGROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (1) Break----------------
  b. “Chronic Condition” is defined as a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more of the  b. “Chronic Condition” is defined as a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more of the 
following characteristics
 10. "Illness" means a sickness or a disease or 10. "Illness" means a sickness or a disease or 
pathological condition leading to the impairment of condition leading to the impairment of 
normal physiological function which manifests itself physiological function which manifests itself 
during the Policy Period and requires medical uring the Policy Period and requires medical 
treatment.
  a. Acute Condition is a disease, Illness and injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which  a. Acute Condition is a disease, Illness and injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which 
aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately.to return the person to his or her state of health immediately.
   i. it needs ongoing or long term monitoring through consultation, examination, check-ups,   i. it needs ongoing or long term monitoring through consultation, examination, check-ups, 
and /or tests 
   ii. it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms   ii. it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
   iii. it requires insured rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it   iii. it requires insured rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it 
 11. “Congenital Anomaly” refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth, and which is abnormal with 11. “Congenital Anomaly” refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth, and which is abnormal with 
reference to form, structure or position.
  b. External Congenital anomaly Congenital anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts of the  b. External Congenital anomaly Congenital anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts of the 
body..
 12. "Co-Payment" is a cost-sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that the 12. "Co-Payment" is a cost-sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that the 
policyholder/insured will bear a specified percentage of the admissible claim amount.  A co-payment does will bear a specified percentage of the admissible claim amount.  A co-payment does 
not reduce the sum insured
 13. “Condition Precedent” means a policy term or condition upon which the Insurer's liability under the 13. “Condition Precedent” means a policy term or condition upon which the Insurer's liability under the 
policy is conditional upon.
 14. “Day Care Treatment” refers to medical treatment, and /or surgical procedure which is :14. “Day Care Treatment” refers to medical treatment, and /or surgical procedure which is :
  i. Undertaken under General or Local Anesthesia in a hospital/ day care centre in less than  i. Undertaken under General or Local Anesthesia in a hospital/ day care centre in less than 
24 hours because of technological advancement, andhours because of technological advancement, and
  ii. Which would have otherwise required a hospitalisation of more than 24 hours. ii. Which would have otherwise required a hospitalisation of more than 24 hours.
  a. Internal Congenital anomaly “Internal Congenital Anomaly” means Congenital anomaly which  a. Internal Congenital anomaly “Internal Congenital Anomaly” means Congenital anomaly which 
is not in the visible and accessible parts of the body.not in the visible and accessible parts of the body.
  iii. Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in scope of this definition. iii. Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in scope of this definition.
  iv. Day Care Treatment shall only include procedures listed in Annexure D. iv. Day Care Treatment shall only include procedures listed in Annexure D.
   v. it recurs or is likely to recur.  v. it recurs or is likely to recur.
   iv. it continues indefinitely  iv. it continues indefinitely
 15. “Day care centre” means any institution established for day care treatment of illness and/or injuries or a 15. “Day care centre” means any institution established for day care treatment of illness and/or injuries or a 
medical setup within a hospital and which has been registered with the local authorities, wherever setup within a hospital and which has been registered with the local authorities, wherever 
applicable and is under the supervision of a registered and qualified medical practitioner AND must comply and is under the supervision of a registered and qualified medical practitioner AND must comply 
with all minimum criteria as under:
  • has qualified nursing staff under its employment; • has qualified nursing staff under its employment;
  • has qualified medical practitioner/s in charge; • has qualified medical practitioner/s in charge;
  • maintains daily records of patients and will make there accessible to the insurance company's  • maintains daily records of patients and will make there accessible to the insurance company's 
authorized personnel
  b. the patient takes treatment at home on account of non-availability of room in a hospital. b. the patient takes treatment at home on account of non-availability of room in a hospital.
  a. has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock; a. has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock;
  a. the condition of the patient is such that he/she cannot be removed to Hospital/or a. the condition of the patient is such that he/she cannot be removed to Hospital/or
  • has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out; • has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;
 16. Deductible means a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that 16. Deductible means a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that 
the insurer will not be liable for a specified rupee amount in case of indemnity policies and for a insurer will not be liable for a specified rupee amount in case of indemnity policies and for a 
specified number of days/hours in case of hospital cash policies which will apply before any benefits are number of days/hours in case of hospital cash policies which will apply before any benefits are 
payable by the insurer. A deductible does not reduce the Sum Insured. (Insurers to define whether the by the insurer. A deductible does not reduce the Sum Insured. (Insurers to define whether the 
deductible is applicable per year, per life or per event and the manner of applicability of the specific is applicable per year, per life or per event and the manner of applicability of the specific 
deductible)
 20. "Family" means as defined in the policy schedule20. "Family" means as defined in the policy schedule
 18. "Domicilliary hospitalisation" means medical treatment for an illness/disease/injury which in the 18. "Domicilliary hospitalisation" means medical treatment for an illness/disease/injury which in the 
normal course require care and treatment at a hospital but is actually taken while confined at home course require care and treatment at a hospital but is actually taken while confined at home 
under any of the following circumstances:
  c. has qualified medical practitioner(s) in charge round the clock; c. has qualified medical practitioner(s) in charge round the clock;
 21. "Hospital" means any institution established for in-patient care and day care treatment of illness and / or 21. "Hospital" means any institution established for in-patient care and day care treatment of illness and / or 
injuries and which has been registered as a hospital with the local authorities under the Clinical and which has been registered as a hospital with the local authorities under the Clinical 
Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act 2010 or under the enactments specified under the (Registration and Regulation) Act 2010 or under the enactments specified under the 
Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said ACT or complies with all minimum criteria as under:of Section 56(1) of the said ACT or complies with all minimum criteria as under:
 19. "Emergency Care" means management for severe illness or injury which results in symptoms which 19. "Emergency Care" means management for severe illness or injury which results in symptoms which 
occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a medical practitioner to prevent ccur suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a medical practitioner to prevent 
death or serious long term impairment of the insured person's health.or serious long term impairment of the insured person's health.
  b. has at least 10 inpatient beds, in those towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and 15  b. has at least 10 inpatient beds, in those towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and 15 
inpatient beds in all other places;
 17. Dental treatment means a treatment related to teeth or structures supporting teeth including examinations, 17. Dental treatment means a treatment related to teeth or structures supporting teeth including examinations, 
fillings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and surgery.(where appropriate), crowns, extractions and surgery.
0304UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS04UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (2) Break----------------
 27. "In-patient care" means treatment for which the insured person has to stay in a hospital for more than 27. "In-patient care" means treatment for which the insured person has to stay in a hospital for more than 
24 hours for a covered event.
 29. Insured/Insured Person/Insured beneficiary:A person accepted by the Company to be insured 29. Insured/Insured Person/Insured beneficiary:A person accepted by the Company to be insured 
under this Policy and who meets and continues to meet all the eligibility requirements and whose name this Policy and who meets and continues to meet all the eligibility requirements and whose name 
specifically appears under Insured (Insured Person) in the Policy Schedule and with respect to whom the appears under Insured (Insured Person) in the Policy Schedule and with respect to whom the 
premium has been received by the Company. . 
  b) expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the policy period.  b) expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the policy period. 
 23. "Injury" means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely and directly caused 23. "Injury" means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely and directly caused 
by external, violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a medical external, violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a medical 
practitioner..
 22. "Hospitalisation" means admission in a hospital for a minimum period of 24 Inpatient care consecutive 22. "Hospitalisation" means admission in a hospital for a minimum period of 24 Inpatient care consecutive 
hours  except for specified procedures/treatments where such admission could be for a period of less  except for specified procedures/treatments where such admission could be for a period of less 
than 24 consecutive hours.
  a) medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries  a) medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries 
and caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization); nd caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization); 
 25. ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses 25. ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses 
which shall include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical support services provided to any ICU patient shall include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical support services provided to any ICU patient 
including monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist charges. monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist charges. 
 30. “Medical Advice” means any consultation or advice from a medical practitioner including the issuance of 30. “Medical Advice” means any consultation or advice from a medical practitioner including the issuance of 
any prescription or repeat prescription.
  d. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out d. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out
  e. maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the Insurance company's  e. maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the Insurance company's 
authorized personnel.
 24. “Intensive Care Unit” means an indentified section, ward or wing of a hospital which is under the constant 24. “Intensive Care Unit” means an indentified section, ward or wing of a hospital which is under the constant 
supervision of a dedicated medical practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for the continuous of a dedicated medical practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for the continuous 
monitoring and treatment of patients who are in critical condition, or require life support facilities and where and treatment of patients who are in critical condition, or require life support facilities and where 
the level of care and supervision is considerably more sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and level of care and supervision is considerably more sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and 
other wards.
 26. Maternity expenses 26. Maternity expenses 
 28. “Insurer/Company” means i.e Reliance General Insurance Company Limited.28. “Insurer/Company” means i.e Reliance General Insurance Company Limited.
 31. "Medical Expenses" means those expenses that an insured person has necessarily and actually incurred 31. "Medical Expenses" means those expenses that an insured person has necessarily and actually incurred 
for medical treatment on account of illness or accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as medical treatment on account of illness or accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as 
these are no more than would have been payable if the insured person had not been insured and no more are no more than would have been payable if the insured person had not been insured and no more 
 33. “Medically necessary treatment” is defined as any treatment, tests, medication, or stay in hospital or part 33. “Medically necessary treatment” is defined as any treatment, tests, medication, or stay in hospital or part 
of stay in a hospital which
  iii. Must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner; iii. Must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner;
 37. Notification of claim means the process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through any of the 37. Notification of claim means the process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through any of the 
recognized modes of communication.
 35. "Non- Network Provider" means any hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part of the 35. "Non- Network Provider" means any hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part of the 
network provider..
 40. Policyholder: The person who is the Proposer and whose name specifically appears in the Policy 40. Policyholder: The person who is the Proposer and whose name specifically appears in the Policy 
Schedule as policy holder
 36. “New Born Baby” means baby born during the policy period and is aged upto 90 days.36. “New Born Baby” means baby born during the policy period and is aged upto 90 days.
 39. “Policy” is the Company's contract of insurance with the policyholder providing cover as detailed in this 39. “Policy” is the Company's contract of insurance with the policyholder providing cover as detailed in this 
Policy Terms & conditions, the Proposal Form, Policy Schedule, Endorsements, if any and Annexures, form Terms & conditions, the Proposal Form, Policy Schedule, Endorsements, if any and Annexures, form 
part of the contract and must be read together..
than other hospitals or Medical Practitioners in the same locality would have charged for the same other hospitals or Medical Practitioners in the same locality would have charged for the same 
medical treatment.
 32. "Medical Practitioner" is a person who holds a valid registration from the medical council of any state or 32. "Medical Practitioner" is a person who holds a valid registration from the medical council of any state or 
Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy Set up by the Govt of edical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy Set up by the Govt of 
India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting or a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting 
within the scope and jurisdiction of his license Medical Practitioner for Mental Illness shall be in accordance the scope and jurisdiction of his license Medical Practitioner for Mental Illness shall be in accordance 
with The Mental Healthcare Act, 2017. The registered practitioner should not be the Policyholder/Insured or The Mental Healthcare Act, 2017. The registered practitioner should not be the Policyholder/Insured or 
their close family member. Physician’, wherever mentioned under this Policy shall also satisfy the close family member. Physician’, wherever mentioned under this Policy shall also satisfy the 
definition of a Medical Practitioner
  i. Is required for the medical management of the illness or injury suffered by the insured; i. Is required for the medical management of the illness or injury suffered by the insured;
  ii. Must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical  ii. Must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical 
care in scope, duration, or intensity;
  iv. Must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice or by  iv. Must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice or by 
the medical community in India.
 34. "Network Provider" means hospitals or health care providers enlisted by an insurer, TPA or jointly by an 34. "Network Provider" means hospitals or health care providers enlisted by an insurer, TPA or jointly by an 
insurer and TPA to provide medical services to an insured by a cashless facility.and TPA to provide medical services to an insured by a cashless facility.
 38. OPD treatment means the one in which the Insured visits a clinic / hospital or associated facility like a 38. OPD treatment means the one in which the Insured visits a clinic / hospital or associated facility like a 
consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. The Insured is room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. The Insured is 
not admitted as a day care or in-patient.
 41. "Policy period" means the period between the inception date/date of joining and the expiry date/date 41. "Policy period" means the period between the inception date/date of joining and the expiry date/date 
of exit as specified in the Schedule to this Policy or the cancellation of this policy, whichever is earlier.exit as specified in the Schedule to this Policy or the cancellation of this policy, whichever is earlier.
0506UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS06UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (3) Break----------------
  a. That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy  a. That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy 
issued by the insurer or its reinstatement or
  i. Such medical expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person's  i. Such medical expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person's 
hospitalisation was required, and
 48. "Schedule" means the document attached name so and to and the forming part of this Policy mentioning 48. "Schedule" means the document attached name so and to and the forming part of this Policy mentioning 
the details of the Insured/ Insured Person/s, the Sum Insured, the period and the limits to which benefits details of the Insured/ Insured Person/s, the Sum Insured, the period and the limits to which benefits 
under the Policy are subject to.
  i. Such medical expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person's  i. Such medical expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person's 
hospitalisation was required, and
 49. Sum Insured means the pre-defined limit specified in the Policy Schedule. Sum Insured and Cumulative 49. Sum Insured means the pre-defined limit specified in the Policy Schedule. Sum Insured and Cumulative 
Bonus represents the maximum, total and cumulative liability for any and all claims made under the Policy, represents the maximum, total and cumulative liability for any and all claims made under the Policy, 
in respect of that Insured Person (on Individual basis) or all Insured Persons (on Floater basis) during the respect of that Insured Person (on Individual basis) or all Insured Persons (on Floater basis) during the 
Policy Period
 42. "Pre-existing Disease" means any condition, ailment, injury or disease42. "Pre-existing Disease" means any condition, ailment, injury or disease
  b. For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician  b. For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician 
within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer 
 43. "Pre-hospitalisation medical expenses” means Medical expenses incurred during pre-defined number 43. "Pre-hospitalisation medical expenses” means Medical expenses incurred during pre-defined number 
of days preceding the hospitalization of the Insured Person, provided that:days preceding the hospitalization of the Insured Person, provided that:
  ii. The in-patient hospitalisation claims for such hospitalisation is admissible by the Insurance  ii. The in-patient hospitalisation claims for such hospitalisation is admissible by the Insurance 
Company..
 44. "Post hospitalisation medical expenses" means medical expenses incurred during pre-defined number 44. "Post hospitalisation medical expenses" means medical expenses incurred during pre-defined number 
of days immediately after the insured person is discharged from the hospital provided that:days immediately after the insured person is discharged from the hospital provided that:
  ii. The in-patient hospitalisation claims for such hospitalisation is admissible by the Company. ii. The in-patient hospitalisation claims for such hospitalisation is admissible by the Company.
 45. "Qualified Nurse" is a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing council of India or the 45. "Qualified Nurse" is a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing council of India or the 
Nursing council of any state in India.
 46. "Reasonable and customary charges" means the charges for services or supplies, which are the 46. "Reasonable and customary charges" means the charges for services or supplies, which are the 
standard charges for the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the tandard charges for the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the 
geographical area for identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of the illness/injury area for identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of the illness/injury 
involved.
 47. "Room Rent" means the amount charged by a Hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses and 47. "Room Rent" means the amount charged by a Hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses and 
shall include the associated medical expenses.
 50. "Surgery or Surgical Procedure" Surgery or Surgical procedure means manual and/or operative 50. "Surgery or Surgical Procedure" Surgery or Surgical procedure means manual and/or operative 
procedure(s) required for treatment of an illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis required for treatment of an illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis 
 54. Prospect means any person who is potential customer of an insurer and is likely to enter into an 54. Prospect means any person who is potential customer of an insurer and is likely to enter into an 
insurance contract either directly with the insurer or through a Distribution Channel.contract either directly with the insurer or through a Distribution Channel.
 52. "Unproven/ Experimental treatment" is treatment, including drug Experimental therapy, which is not 52. "Unproven/ Experimental treatment" is treatment, including drug Experimental therapy, which is not 
based on established medical practice in India, is treatment experimental or unproven.on established medical practice in India, is treatment experimental or unproven.
 53. Proposal Form  means a form to be filled in by the Prospect in written or electronic or any other format as approved by the Authority, for furnishing all material 53. Proposal Form  means a form to be filled in by the Prospect in written or electronic or any other format as approved by the Authority, for furnishing all material 
information as required by the insurer in respect of a risk, in order to enable the insurer to take informed as required by the insurer in respect of a risk, in order to enable the insurer to take informed 
decision in the context of underwriting the risk, and in the event of acceptance of the risk, to determine the in the context of underwriting the risk, and in the event of acceptance of the risk, to determine the 
rates, advantages, terms and conditions of the cover to be granted. advantages, terms and conditions of the cover to be granted. 
and cure of diseases, relief of suffering or prolongation of life, performed in a hospital or day nd cure of diseases, relief of suffering or prolongation of life, performed in a hospital or day 
care centre by a medical practitioner..
 51. Third party administrator (TPA): - Third party administrator or TPA means any person who is 51. Third party administrator (TPA): - Third party administrator or TPA means any person who is 
licensed under the IRDA (Third Party Administrators - Health Services) Regulations 2001 by the Authority, under the IRDA (Third Party Administrators - Health Services) Regulations 2001 by the Authority, 
and is engaged, for a fee or remuneration by an insurance company to service this policy, for the is engaged, for a fee or remuneration by an insurance company to service this policy, for the 
purposes of providing health services.
  Explanation: “Material Information” shall mean all important, essential and relevant information sought  Explanation: “Material Information” shall mean all important, essential and relevant information sought 
by the Company in the  proposal form and other connected documents to enable him to take informed  proposal form and other connected documents to enable him to take informed  
decision in the context of underwriting the risk.
 55. Prospectus means a document either in physical or electronic or any other format issued by the insurer to 55. Prospectus means a document either in physical or electronic or any other format issued by the insurer to 
sell or promote the insurance products.
 56. Senior citizen means any person who has completed sixty or more years of age as on the date of 56. Senior citizen means any person who has completed sixty or more years of age as on the date of 
commencement or renewal of a health insurance policy. or renewal of a health insurance policy. 
 57. Telemedicine means Medical consultation service availed via telecommunications and digital 57. Telemedicine means Medical consultation service availed via telecommunications and digital 
communication technologies by the Insured Person from a Medical Practitioner while taking treatment for technologies by the Insured Person from a Medical Practitioner while taking treatment for 
the health condition that has resulted in an admissible Claim under a cover in this Policy. Such Telemedicine health condition that has resulted in an admissible Claim under a cover in this Policy. Such Telemedicine 
services shall be delivered in compliance with the Medical Council of India’s ‘Telemedicine Practice shall be delivered in compliance with the Medical Council of India’s ‘Telemedicine Practice 
Guidelines’ dated March 2020 or its subsequent amendments, if any. dated March 2020 or its subsequent amendments, if any.
 58. Mental Illness means a substantial disorder of thinking, mood, perception, orientation or memory that 58. Mental Illness means a substantial disorder of thinking, mood, perception, orientation or memory that 
grossly impairs judgment, behaviour, capacity to recognise reality or ability to meet the ordinary impairs judgment, behaviour, capacity to recognise reality or ability to meet the ordinary 
demands of life, mental conditions associated with the abuse of alcohol and drugs, but does not include of life, mental conditions associated with the abuse of alcohol and drugs, but does not include 
mental retardation which is a condition of arrested or incomplete development of mind of a person, retardation which is a condition of arrested or incomplete development of mind of a person, 
specially characterised by sub normality of intelligence.pecially characterised by sub normality of intelligence.
0708UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS08UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (4) Break----------------
 59. “Portability” means, the right accorded to individual health insurance policyholders (including all members 59. “Portability” means, the right accorded to individual health insurance policyholders (including all members 
under family cover), to transfer the credit gained for pre- existing conditions and time bound exclusions, family cover), to transfer the credit gained for pre- existing conditions and time bound exclusions, 
from one insurer to another insurer..
  3.  Scope Of Cover  
The total payment under all benefits under the Policy shall not exceed the Sum Insured mentioned in the Policy Schedule total payment under all benefits under the Policy shall not exceed the Sum Insured mentioned in the Policy Schedule 
 60. “Migration” means, the right accorded to health insurance policyholders (including all members under 60. “Migration” means, the right accorded to health insurance policyholders (including all members under 
family cover and members of group health insurance policy), to transfer the credit gained for pre-existing cover and members of group health insurance policy), to transfer the credit gained for pre-existing 
conditions and time bound exclusions, with the same insurer.and time bound exclusions, with the same insurer.
 61. Complainant means a policyholder or prospect or any beneficiary of an insurance policy who has filed a 61. Complainant means a policyholder or prospect or any beneficiary of an insurance policy who has filed a 
Complaint or Grievance against the Company or a Distribution Channel.or Grievance against the Company or a Distribution Channel.
The Company hereby agrees subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions contained or expressed in the Policy, to Company hereby agrees subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions contained or expressed in the Policy, to 
compensate the Insured Person as per the covers and limits specified in the Policy Schedule. the Insured Person as per the covers and limits specified in the Policy Schedule. 
 64. Renewal: means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent with a 64. Renewal: means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent with a 
provision of Grace Period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of gaining credit for pre-of Grace Period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of gaining credit for pre-
existing diseases, time-bound exclusions and for all waiting periods.diseases, time-bound exclusions and for all waiting periods.
 1. InPatient Treatment1. InPatient Treatment
  The Policy shall be void and all premium paid hereon shall be forfeited to the Company, in the event of  The Policy shall be void and all premium paid hereon shall be forfeited to the Company, in the event of 
misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any material  factmis-description or non-disclosure of any material  fact
In addition to the terms laid out herein, liability arising due to any treatment relating to Mental Illness shall be assessed in addition to the terms laid out herein, liability arising due to any treatment relating to Mental Illness shall be assessed in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of The Mental Healthcare Act, 2017. with the relevant provisions of The Mental Healthcare Act, 2017. 
The Policy Schedule and all Endorsement Schedules shall be as per terms and conditions accepted and agreed with the Policy Schedule and all Endorsement Schedules shall be as per terms and conditions accepted and agreed with the 
Policyholder. . 
  If during the Policy Period any of the Insured Person undergoes Hospitalization for Inpatient Treatment on  If during the Policy Period any of the Insured Person undergoes Hospitalization for Inpatient Treatment on 
the written advice of a Medical Practitioner, then the Company will indemnify the Policyholder/Insured written advice of a Medical Practitioner, then the Company will indemnify the Policyholder/Insured 
Person for the below incurred Medical Expenses:
 63. Disclosure to information norm63. Disclosure to information norm
 62. Complaint or Grievance: Complaint or Grievance means written expression (includes communication in 62. Complaint or Grievance: Complaint or Grievance means written expression (includes communication in 
the form of electronic mail or other electronic scripts), of dissatisfaction by a Complainant with insurer, form of electronic mail or other electronic scripts), of dissatisfaction by a Complainant with insurer, 
Distribution Channels, intermediaries, insurance intermediaries or other regulated entities about an istribution Channels, intermediaries, insurance intermediaries or other regulated entities about an 
action or lack of action about the standard of service or deficiency of service of such insurer, Distribution or lack of action about the standard of service or deficiency of service of such insurer, Distribution 
Channels, intermediaries, insurance intermediaries or other regulated entities. intermediaries, insurance intermediaries or other regulated entities. 
 4. Day Care Treatment4. Day Care Treatment
  • Nursing • Nursing
  • The cost of prosthetic and other devices or equipment if implanted internally during a Surgical  • The cost of prosthetic and other devices or equipment if implanted internally during a Surgical 
Procedure
 3. Post Hospitalization3. Post Hospitalization
  The Company will indemnify the Policyholder/ Insured Person for the Pre- Hospitalisation  The Company will indemnify the Policyholder/ Insured Person for the Pre- Hospitalisation 
Expenses upto 30 days, provided that:
  • Diagnostic procedures • Diagnostic procedures
  • Medical Practitioner(s), • Medical Practitioner(s),
  Domiciliary hospitalisation benefits shall be subject to the Sum Insured as specified in the Schedule, and  Domiciliary hospitalisation benefits shall be subject to the Sum Insured as specified in the Schedule, and 
shall, in no case cover expenses incurred for:
  • Anesthesia, blood, oxygen, operation theatre charges, surgical appliances, • Anesthesia, blood, oxygen, operation theatre charges, surgical appliances,
  • Medicines, drugs and Consumables • Medicines, drugs and Consumables
 2. Pre- Hospitalization2. Pre- Hospitalization
  i. such Medical Expenses are incurred in respect of the same condition for which Insured Person  i. such Medical Expenses are incurred in respect of the same condition for which Insured Person 
has taken Inpatient Treatment, andTreatment, and
  i. Such costs are incurred in respect of the same condition for which the Insured Person has taken  i. Such costs are incurred in respect of the same condition for which the Insured Person has taken 
Inpatient Treatment, andTreatment, and
  ii. Company has accepted the Claim for these Inpatient Treatment expenses under Benefit 1  ii. Company has accepted the Claim for these Inpatient Treatment expenses under Benefit 1 
InPatient Treatmentreatment
  • Intensive care Unit (ICU), • Intensive care Unit (ICU),
  • Room Rent • Room Rent
  The Company will indemnify the Policyholder/ Insured Person for the Post Hospitalisation  The Company will indemnify the Policyholder/ Insured Person for the Post Hospitalisation 
Expenses upto 60 days, provided that:
  ii. Company has accepted the Claim for these Inpatient Treatment expenses under Benefit 1  ii. Company has accepted the Claim for these Inpatient Treatment expenses under Benefit 1 
InPatient TreatmentTreatment
 5. Domiciliary Hospitalisation5. Domiciliary Hospitalisation
 ` The Company will indemnify the Policyholder/ Insured Person for the Medical Expenses on the written ` The Company will indemnify the Policyholder/ Insured Person for the Medical Expenses on the written 
advice of the Medical Practitioner, if during the Policy Period, any of the Insured Person undergoes a Day of the Medical Practitioner, if during the Policy Period, any of the Insured Person undergoes a Day 
Care Treatment as defined and listed under this PolicyTreatment as defined and listed under this Policy
  2. The patient cannot be admitted to Hospital/ Nursing Home for lack of accommodation therein. 2. The patient cannot be admitted to Hospital/ Nursing Home for lack of accommodation therein.
  Domiciliary Hospitalisation means medical treatment for a period exceeding three days for disease/  Domiciliary Hospitalisation means medical treatment for a period exceeding three days for disease/ 
injury which in the normal course would require care and treatment at a hospital/nursing home but which in the normal course would require care and treatment at a hospital/nursing home but 
is actually taken whilst confined at home in India under any of the following circumstances namelyactually taken whilst confined at home in India under any of the following circumstances namely
  1. The condition of the patient is such that he/she cannot be removed to Hospital/Nursing home, or 1. The condition of the patient is such that he/she cannot be removed to Hospital/Nursing home, or
0910UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS10UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (5) Break----------------
  vi. Epilepsy vi. Epilepsy
 6. Ayush Treatment6. Ayush Treatment
  iv. Diarrhea & all types of dysenteries including gastroenteritis. iv. Diarrhea & all types of dysenteries including gastroenteritis.
  iii. Chronic nephritis and nephritic syndrome iii. Chronic nephritis and nephritic syndrome
  v. Diabetes mellitus and insipidus v. Diabetes mellitus and insipidus
  Treatment of any of the following diseases/illness/ injury: Treatment of any of the following diseases/illness/ injury:
  ii. Bronchitis ii. Bronchitis
  ix. All psychiatric or psychosomatic disorders ix. All psychiatric or psychosomatic disorders
  viii. Influenza, cough and cold viii. Influenza, cough and cold
  xi. Tonsillitis and upper respiratory tract infection including laryngitis & pharangitis xi. Tonsillitis and upper respiratory tract infection including laryngitis & pharangitis
  xii. Arthritis, gout and rheumatism. xii. Arthritis, gout and rheumatism.
  i. Asthma i. Asthma
  vii. Hypertension vii. Hypertension
  x. Pyrexia of unknown origin for less than 10 days x. Pyrexia of unknown origin for less than 10 days
  The Company will indemnify the Policyholder /Insured Person against the Medical Expenses which are  The Company will indemnify the Policyholder /Insured Person against the Medical Expenses which are 
incurred on treatment under AYUSH up to the Sum Insured under the Policy. The AYUSH treatment on treatment under AYUSH up to the Sum Insured under the Policy. The AYUSH treatment 
should be carried out in an AYUSH Hospital or AYUSH Day Care Centre as defined under the Policy.be carried out in an AYUSH Hospital or AYUSH Day Care Centre as defined under the Policy.
  i. Treatment other than Inpatient Treatment or Day Care Treatment i. Treatment other than Inpatient Treatment or Day Care Treatment
  ii. Medical Expenses incurred for evaluation, Investigation only. ii. Medical Expenses incurred for evaluation, Investigation only.
  iii. Treatment availed outside India. iii. Treatment availed outside India.
  iv. Treatment at a healthcare facility which is NOT an AYUSH Hospital or AYUSH Day Care Centre. iv. Treatment at a healthcare facility which is NOT an AYUSH Hospital or AYUSH Day Care Centre.
  v. Pre-Post Hospitalization expenses v. Pre-Post Hospitalization expenses
  vi. All preventive and rejuvenation treatments (non-curative in nature), or treatments that are not  vi. All preventive and rejuvenation treatments (non-curative in nature), or treatments that are not 
Medically Necessary. This includes but not limited to treatments at Spa, Massages and Necessary. This includes but not limited to treatments at Spa, Massages and 
Health Rejuvenation Procedure. 
 7. Modern Treatment7. Modern Treatment
  The Company shall not be liable for payment of any Claim under this Benefit directly or indirectly arising  The Company shall not be liable for payment of any Claim under this Benefit directly or indirectly arising 
out of or relating to: 
  The Company will indemnify the Insured Person up to 50% of Base Sum Insured for the Medical  The Company will indemnify the Insured Person up to 50% of Base Sum Insured for the Medical 
Expenses incurred during the Policy period on Inpatient Treatment or Day Care Treatment or incurred during the Policy period on Inpatient Treatment or Day Care Treatment or 
Domiciliary Treatment of below mentioned Modern Treatment MethodsTreatment of below mentioned Modern Treatment Methods
  • Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU • Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU
  • Balloon Sinuplasty • Balloon Sinuplasty
  • Immunotherapy-Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection • Immunotherapy-Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection
  • Oral Chemotherapy • Oral Chemotherapy
  • Deep Brain Stimulation • Deep Brain Stimulation
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under the policy in connection with or in respect of following Company shall not be liable to make any payment under the policy in connection with or in respect of following 
expenses till the expiry of waiting period mentioned below:
  a. Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be  a. Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be 
excluded until the expiry of 12 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of xcluded until the expiry of 12 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of 
the first Policy with us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an Accident.first Policy with us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an Accident.
  b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of sum  b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of sum 
insured increase.
  • Intra Vitreal injections • Intra Vitreal injections
  • Bronchial Thermoplasty • Bronchial Thermoplasty
  The claim under this benefit shall be subject to all other terms under Benefits 1 to 6 The claim under this benefit shall be subject to all other terms under Benefits 1 to 6
  c. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for Pre- c. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for Pre-
Existing Diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply.Diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply.
  • Vaporization of the prostrate (Green laser treatment or holmium laser treatment) • Vaporization of the prostrate (Green laser treatment or holmium laser treatment)
  • IONM- (Intra Operative Neutro Monitoring) • IONM- (Intra Operative Neutro Monitoring)
  • Stem Cell therapy: Including Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for hematological  • Stem Cell therapy: Including Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for hematological 
conditions to be covered 
  • Stereotactic radio surgeries • Stereotactic radio surgeries
 1. Pre-Existing Diseases - Code- Excl01 1. Pre-Existing Diseases - Code- Excl01 
  • Robot surgeries • Robot surgeries
  4.  Waiting Period aiting Period 
  c) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability  c) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability 
norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, then waiting period for the same of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, then waiting period for the same 
would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage.
  d) Coverage under the policy after the expiry of 48 months for any pre-existing disease is subject to  d) Coverage under the policy after the expiry of 48 months for any pre-existing disease is subject to 
the same being declared at the time of application and accepted by Insurer.same being declared at the time of application and accepted by Insurer.
  d. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or declared and  d. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or declared and 
accepted without a specific exclusion.
 2. Specified disease/procedure waiting period- Code- Excl02 2. Specified disease/procedure waiting period- Code- Excl02 
The Waiting Periods as defined in Section 3 shall be applicable individually for each Insured Person and Claims shall be Waiting Periods as defined in Section 3 shall be applicable individually for each Insured Person and Claims shall be 
assessed accordingly, irrespective of whether the Sum Insured is on individual or floater basis.accordingly, irrespective of whether the Sum Insured is on individual or floater basis.
  a) Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct  a) Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct 
complications shall be excluded until the expiry of 48 months of continuous coverage after the date shall be excluded until the expiry of 48 months of continuous coverage after the date 
of inception of the first policy with insurer..
  b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of
Sum Insured increase.  increase. 
1112UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS112UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (6) Break----------------
  c) The member has to be 18 years of age or older and c) The member has to be 18 years of age or older and
 3. Obesity/ Weight Control (Code:Excl06): Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does 3. Obesity/ Weight Control (Code:Excl06): Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does 
not fulfil all the below conditions:
  a) Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor a) Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor
  b) The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols b) The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols
  d) Body Mass Index (BMI);  d) Body Mass Index (BMI); 
   i. greater than or equal to 40 or  i. greater than or equal to 40 or
   ii. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities   ii. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities 
following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss:failure of less invasive methods of weight loss:
    • Obesity-related cardiomyopathy   • Obesity-related cardiomyopathy
    • Coronary heart disease    • Coronary heart disease 
    • Severe Sleep Apnea   • Severe Sleep Apnea
    • Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes   • Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes
 4. Change-of-Gender treatments (Code:Excl07): Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical 4. Change-of-Gender treatments (Code:Excl07): Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical 
management, to change characteristics of the body to those of the opposite sex.to change characteristics of the body to those of the opposite sex.
 5. Cosmetic or Plastic Surgery (Code: Excl08):  Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any 5. Cosmetic or Plastic Surgery (Code: Excl08):  Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any 
treatment to change appearance unless for reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or reatment to change appearance unless for reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or 
Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the or as part of medically necessary treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the 
insured. For this to be considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending nsured. For this to be considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending 
Medical Practitioner..
 6. Hazardous or Adventure sports (Code:Excl09): Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due 6. Hazardous or Adventure sports (Code:Excl09): Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due 
to participation as a professional in hazardous or adventure sports, including but not limited to, para-participation as a professional in hazardous or adventure sports, including but not limited to, para-
jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky 
diving, deep-sea diving. 
 7. Breach of law (Code: Excl10): Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon 7. Breach of law (Code: Excl10): Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon 
any Insured Person committing or attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent.Insured Person committing or attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent.
 8. Excluded Providers (Code:Excl11): Expenses incurred towards treatment in any Hospital or by any 8. Excluded Providers (Code:Excl11): Expenses incurred towards treatment in any Hospital or by any 
Medical Practitioner or any other provider specifically excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its website / Practitioner or any other provider specifically excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its website / 
notified to the policyholders are not admissible. However, in case of life threatening situations or to the policyholders are not admissible. However, in case of life threatening situations or 
following an accident, expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim. an accident, expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim. 
(For updated and detailed list of Excluded Providers refer website- www.reliancegeneral.co.in )updated and detailed list of Excluded Providers refer website- www.reliancegeneral.co.in )
 9. Substance Abuse and Alcohol (Code: Excl12): Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse 9. Substance Abuse and Alcohol (Code: Excl12): Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse 
or any addictive condition and consequences thereof.
   • Cataract,  • Cataract,
  b) This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has Continuous Coverage for  b) This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has Continuous Coverage for 
more than twelve months.
   • Hysterectomy or menorrhagia or fibromyoma   • Hysterectomy or menorrhagia or fibromyoma 
   • Hernia,   • Hernia, 
   • Hydrocele  • Hydrocele
   • Piles  • Piles
 3. 30-day waiting period- Code- Excl03 3. 30-day waiting period- Code- Excl03 
   • Fistula in anus  • Fistula in anus
  f. List of specific diseases/procedures in respect of which 12 months waiting period is imposed is  f. List of specific diseases/procedures in respect of which 12 months waiting period is imposed is 
mentioned below:
   • Benign prostatic hypertrophy  • Benign prostatic hypertrophy
   • Internal congenital diseases/anomalies  • Internal congenital diseases/anomalies
  e. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable  e. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable 
norms on f stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the on f stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the 
extent of prior coverage
  a) Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the first policy  a) Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the first policy 
commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an accident, provided the date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an accident, provided the 
same are covered.
   • Sinusitis  • Sinusitis
  c) The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum insured in the  c) The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum insured in the 
event of granting higher sum insured subsequently.vent of granting higher sum insured subsequently.
  5.   General Exclusions  
The Company shall have no liability and no Claim shall be admissible in respect of any Insured Person under any Company shall have no liability and no Claim shall be admissible in respect of any Insured Person under any 
benefit(s) where such liability or Claim arises directly or indirectly due to any of the following:where such liability or Claim arises directly or indirectly due to any of the following:
 1. Investigation & Evaluation (Code:Excl04)1. Investigation & Evaluation (Code:Excl04)
  ii. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and  ii. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and 
treatment are excluded.
 2. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Code:Excl05)2. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Code:Excl05)
  Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This  Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This 
also includes:
  i. Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are  i. Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are 
excluded.
  i. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with  i. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with 
activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or 
assistant or non-skilled persons. 
  ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and spiritual  ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and spiritual 
needs.
1314UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS14UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (7) Break----------------
  i. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and  i. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and 
caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy;aesarean sections incurred during hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy;
  c. Gestational Surrogacy c. Gestational Surrogacy
 14. Sterility and Infertility (Code: Excl17): Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes:14. Sterility and Infertility (Code: Excl17): Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes:
  ii. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical termination of  ii. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical termination of 
pregnancy during the policy period.
  a. Any type of contraception, sterilization a. Any type of contraception, sterilization
 21. Disease or injury directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to by nuclear weapons/materials.21. Disease or injury directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to by nuclear weapons/materials.
 22. Non-medical expenses: Any non-medical expenses mentioned in Annexure A22. Non-medical expenses: Any non-medical expenses mentioned in Annexure A
 19. Convalescence, general debility, 'run-down' condition venereal disease.19. Convalescence, general debility, 'run-down' condition venereal disease.
 13. Unproven Treatments-Code (Code: Excl16): Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any treatment. 13. Unproven Treatments-Code (Code: Excl16): Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any treatment. 
Unproven treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medical documentation treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medical documentation 
to support their effectiveness.fectiveness.
 10. Wellness and Rejuvenation (Code:Excl13): Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure 10. Wellness and Rejuvenation (Code:Excl13): Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure 
clinics, spas or similar establishments or private beds registered as a nursing home attached to such spas or similar establishments or private beds registered as a nursing home attached to such 
establishments or where admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons.or where admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons.
 11. Dietary Supplements & Substances (Code: Excl14): Dietary supplements and substances that 11. Dietary Supplements & Substances (Code: Excl14): Dietary supplements and substances that 
can be purchased without prescription, including but not limited to Vitamins, minerals and organic be purchased without prescription, including but not limited to Vitamins, minerals and organic 
substances unless prescribed by a Medical Practitioner as part of hospitalization claim or day ubstances unless prescribed by a Medical Practitioner as part of hospitalization claim or day 
care procedure.
  b. Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced reproductive  b. Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced reproductive 
technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI
  d. Reversal of sterilization d. Reversal of sterilization
 12. Refractive Error (Code: Excl15): Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to 12. Refractive Error (Code: Excl15): Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to 
refractive error less than 7.5 diopters.
 15. Maternity: Code Excl1815. Maternity: Code Excl18
 16. Circumcision unless necessary for treatment of a disease not excluded here in above or as may be 16. Circumcision unless necessary for treatment of a disease not excluded here in above or as may be 
necessitated due to an accident.
 18. Dental treatment or surgery of any kind unless requiring hospitalisation.18. Dental treatment or surgery of any kind unless requiring hospitalisation.
 20. All expenses arising out of any condition, directly or indirectly, caused to or associated with human T-Cell 20. All expenses arising out of any condition, directly or indirectly, caused to or associated with human T-Cell 
Lymphotropic Virus type III (HTLV III) or Lymphadinopathy Associated Virus (LAV) or the ymphotropic Virus type III (HTLV III) or Lymphadinopathy Associated Virus (LAV) or the 
Mutants Derivative or Variations Deficiency Syndrome or any Syndrome or condition of a similar kind.Derivative or Variations Deficiency Syndrome or any Syndrome or condition of a similar kind.
 17. Cost of spectacles, contact lenses and hearing aids.17. Cost of spectacles, contact lenses and hearing aids.
  • Nature of Illness / Injury • Nature of Illness / Injury
  • Date of Admission • Date of Admission
The fulfillment of the terms and conditions of this Policy (including the realization of premium by their respective due fulfillment of the terms and conditions of this Policy (including the realization of premium by their respective due 
dates) in so far as they relate to anything to be done or complied with by the Policyholder or any Insured Person, in so far as they relate to anything to be done or complied with by the Policyholder or any Insured Person, 
including complying with the following steps, shall be the condition precedent to the admissibility of the Claim.complying with the following steps, shall be the condition precedent to the admissibility of the Claim.
  • Planned Hospitalization, the Policyholder /Insured Person will intimate such admission at least 48  • Planned Hospitalization, the Policyholder /Insured Person will intimate such admission at least 48 
hours prior to the planned date of admission.
 23. War (whether declared or not) and war like occurrence or invasion, acts of foreign enemies, 23. War (whether declared or not) and war like occurrence or invasion, acts of foreign enemies, 
hostilities, civil war, rebellion, revolutions, insurrections, mutiny, military or usurped power, ostilities, civil war, rebellion, revolutions, insurrections, mutiny, military or usurped power, 
seizure, capture, arrest, restraints and detainment of all kinds. capture, arrest, restraints and detainment of all kinds. 
 24. Permanent Exclusions24. Permanent Exclusions
  A permanent exclusion will be applied on Pre-Existing medical or physical condition or  A permanent exclusion will be applied on Pre-Existing medical or physical condition or 
treatment of an Insured Person, if such exclusion is accepted by the Proposer and specifically mentioned of an Insured Person, if such exclusion is accepted by the Proposer and specifically mentioned 
in the Policy Schedule. This option, as per Company’s underwriting policy, will be used for such condition(s) the Policy Schedule. This option, as per Company’s underwriting policy, will be used for such condition(s) 
or treatment(s) that otherwise would have resulted in rejection of insurance coverage under this Policy to treatment(s) that otherwise would have resulted in rejection of insurance coverage under this Policy to 
such Insured Person. The  list of such diseases/ conditions or treatments are enclosed as an Insured Person. The  list of such diseases/ conditions or treatments are enclosed as an 
Annexure-F..
  In the event of any Illness or Injury or occurrence of any other contingency which has resulted in a Claim  In the event of any Illness or Injury or occurrence of any other contingency which has resulted in a Claim 
or may result in a Claim covered under the Policy, the Policyholder/ Insured Person, must notify to the may result in a Claim covered under the Policy, the Policyholder/ Insured Person, must notify to the 
TPA/Company either at the call center or in writing immediately.A/Company either at the call center or in writing immediately.
   The following details are to be provided to the TPA/ Company at the time of intimation of Claim:  The following details are to be provided to the TPA/ Company at the time of intimation of Claim:
 4.1 Claims Intimation4.1 Claims Intimation
  In the event of In the event of
  • `Emergency Hospitalization, the Policyholder /Insured Person will intimate such admission  • `Emergency Hospitalization, the Policyholder /Insured Person will intimate such admission 
within 24 hours of such admission.
  • Policy Number • Policy Number
  • Name of the Policyholder • Name of the Policyholder
Upon the discovery or happening of any Illness / Injury that may give rise to a Claim under this Policy, then as a condition the discovery or happening of any Illness / Injury that may give rise to a Claim under this Policy, then as a condition 
precedent to the admissibility of the Claim, the Policyholder/ Insured Person shall undertake the following:to the admissibility of the Claim, the Policyholder/ Insured Person shall undertake the following:
  • Name of the Insured Person in whose relation the Claim is being lodged • Name of the Insured Person in whose relation the Claim is being lodged
  4.   Claims Procedure  
  • Name and address of the attending Medical Practitioner and Hospital • Name and address of the attending Medical Practitioner and Hospital
  • Any other information as requested by the Company • Any other information as requested by the Company
1516UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS16UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (8) Break----------------
 4.2 Claims Procedure4.2 Claims Procedure
 4.2.1 Cashless: Cashless facility is available only at a Network Hospital. The Insured Person can avail 4.2.1 Cashless: Cashless facility is available only at a Network Hospital. The Insured Person can avail 
Cashless facility at the time of admission into any Network Hospital, by presenting the health card as facility at the time of admission into any Network Hospital, by presenting the health card as 
provided by the TPA/Company with this Policy, along with a valid photo identification proof (Voter ID card / by the TPA/Company with this Policy, along with a valid photo identification proof (Voter ID card / 
Driving License / Passport / PAN Card / any other identity proof as approved by the Company).License / Passport / PAN Card / any other identity proof as approved by the Company).
  a. Pre-authorization: Prior to Hospitalization, the Policyholder/ Insured Person must call the call  a. Pre-authorization: Prior to Hospitalization, the Policyholder/ Insured Person must call the call 
center of the TPA/Company and request authorization by way of submission of a enter of the TPA/Company and request authorization by way of submission of a 
completed Pre-authorization form at least 48 hours before a planned Hospitalization and in Pre-authorization form at least 48 hours before a planned Hospitalization and in 
case of an Emergency situation, within 24 hours of  Hospitalization.of an Emergency situation, within 24 hours of  Hospitalization.
  b. The TPA/Company will process the Policyholder's/ Insured Person's request for authorization after  b. The TPA/Company will process the Policyholder's/ Insured Person's request for authorization after 
having obtained accurate and complete information for the Illness/ Injury for which aving obtained accurate and complete information for the Illness/ Injury for which 
Cashless facility for Hospitalization is sought by the Policyholder/ Insured Person and the facility for Hospitalization is sought by the Policyholder/ Insured Person and the 
TPA/Company will confirm such Cashless authorization / rejection in writing or by other PA/Company will confirm such Cashless authorization / rejection in writing or by other 
means.
  c. If the procedure above is followed and the Policyholder's/ Insured Person's request for  c. If the procedure above is followed and the Policyholder's/ Insured Person's request for 
Cashless facility is authorized, the Policyholder/ Insured Person will not be required to pay for the facility is authorized, the Policyholder/ Insured Person will not be required to pay for the 
Hospitalization Expenses which are covered under this Policy and fall within the Company's ospitalization Expenses which are covered under this Policy and fall within the Company's 
liability (within the authorized limit).Original bills and evidence of treatment in respect of the same (within the authorized limit).Original bills and evidence of treatment in respect of the same 
shall be left with the Network Hospital.
  d. The Company/TPA (On behalf of Company) reserves the right to review each Claim for  d. The Company/TPA (On behalf of Company) reserves the right to review each Claim for 
Hospitalization Expenses and coverage will be determined according to the terms and conditions Expenses and coverage will be determined according to the terms and conditions 
of this Policy. The Policyholder/ Insured Person shall, in any event, be required to settle all other this Policy. The Policyholder/ Insured Person shall, in any event, be required to settle all other 
expenses, co-payment and / or deductibles (if applicable), directly with the Hospital.co-payment and / or deductibles (if applicable), directly with the Hospital.
  e. Cashless facility for Hospitalization Expenses shall be limited exclusively to Medical Expenses  e. Cashless facility for Hospitalization Expenses shall be limited exclusively to Medical Expenses 
incurred for treatment undertaken in a Network Hospital for Illness or Injury which are covered for treatment undertaken in a Network Hospital for Illness or Injury which are covered 
under the Policy..
  f. There can be instances where the TPA/Company may deny Cashless facility for Hospitalization due  f. There can be instances where the TPA/Company may deny Cashless facility for Hospitalization due 
to insufficient Sum Insured or insufficient information to determine admissibility in which o insufficient Sum Insured or insufficient information to determine admissibility in which 
case  the Policyholder/ Insured Person may be required to pay for the treatment and submit the  the Policyholder/ Insured Person may be required to pay for the treatment and submit the 
Claim for reimbursement to the TPA/Company which will be considered subject to the Policy for reimbursement to the TPA/Company which will be considered subject to the Policy 
Terms &Conditions.erms &Conditions.
  To avail Cashless facility, the following procedure must be followed by the Policyholder/ Insured Person: To avail Cashless facility, the following procedure must be followed by the Policyholder/ Insured Person:
  g. The Policyholder/ Insured Person shall be required to submit the documents as mentioned in  g. The Policyholder/ Insured Person shall be required to submit the documents as mentioned in 
Clause 4.4 with the Network Hospital.
 Note: Under Cashless facility, the TPA/Company may authorize upon the Policyholder's / Insured Person's request Note: Under Cashless facility, the TPA/Company may authorize upon the Policyholder's / Insured Person's request 
for direct settlement of admissible Claim as per agreed charges & terms and conditions between Network Hospital direct settlement of admissible Claim as per agreed charges & terms and conditions between Network Hospital 
and the TPA/Company. In such cases, the TPA/Company will directly settle all eligible amounts as per the Policy Terms the TPA/Company. In such cases, the TPA/Company will directly settle all eligible amounts as per the Policy Terms 
&Conditions with the Network Hospital to the extent the Claim is covered under the Policy.with the Network Hospital to the extent the Claim is covered under the Policy.
 4.2.2 Re-imbursement :4.2.2 Re-imbursement :
  In case of any Claim under the Benefits, where cashless facility is not availed, the list of documents  In case of any Claim under the Benefits, where cashless facility is not availed, the list of documents 
as mentioned in clause 4.4 shall be provided by the Policyholder/Insured Person, to TPA/Company mentioned in clause 4.4 shall be provided by the Policyholder/Insured Person, to TPA/Company 
immediately but not later than 30 days of discharge from the Hospital, at the Policyholder's/ Insured but not later than 30 days of discharge from the Hospital, at the Policyholder's/ Insured 
Person's expense to avail the Claim.
 4.3 Policyholder's / Insured Person's duty at the time of Claim4.3 Policyholder's / Insured Person's duty at the time of Claim
  a. The Policyholder / Insured Person must take reasonable steps or measure to avoid or minimize  a. The Policyholder / Insured Person must take reasonable steps or measure to avoid or minimize 
the quantum of any Claim that may be made under this Policy.quantum of any Claim that may be made under this Policy.
 The Company, at its sole discretion, reserves the right to modify, add or restrict any Network Hospital for Cashless The Company, at its sole discretion, reserves the right to modify, add or restrict any Network Hospital for Cashless 
services available under the Policy. Before availing the Cashless service, the Policyholder / Insured Person is available under the Policy. Before availing the Cashless service, the Policyholder / Insured Person is 
required to check the applicable list of Network Hospital on the Company's website.to check the applicable list of Network Hospital on the Company's website.
  b. Forthwith intimate / file / submit a Claim in accordance with Clause 4 of this Policy. b. Forthwith intimate / file / submit a Claim in accordance with Clause 4 of this Policy.
  d. The Policyholder/ Insured Person is required to check the applicable list of Network  d. The Policyholder/ Insured Person is required to check the applicable list of Network 
Hospitalization the TPA/Company's website or call center before availing the Cashless services.the TPA/Company's website or call center before availing the Cashless services.
   • Allow the Medical Practitioner or any of the Company's representatives to inspect the   • Allow the Medical Practitioner or any of the Company's representatives to inspect the 
medical and Hospitalization records, investigate the facts and examine the Insured edical and Hospitalization records, investigate the facts and examine the Insured 
Person.
   If the Policyholder / Insured Person does not comply with the provisions of these conditions all   If the Policyholder / Insured Person does not comply with the provisions of these conditions all 
benefits under this Policy shall be forfeited at the Company's option.under this Policy shall be forfeited at the Company's option.
   • Assist and not hinder or prevent the Company's representatives in pursuance of   • Assist and not hinder or prevent the Company's representatives in pursuance of 
their duties for ascertaining the admissibility of the Claim under the Policy.duties for ascertaining the admissibility of the Claim under the Policy.
  c. If so requested by the TPA/Company, the Insured Person will have to submit himself for a medical  c. If so requested by the TPA/Company, the Insured Person will have to submit himself for a medical 
examination by the TPA/Company's nominated Medical Practitioner as often as it considers by the TPA/Company's nominated Medical Practitioner as often as it considers 
reasonable and necessary. The cost of such examination will be borne by the Company.and necessary. The cost of such examination will be borne by the Company.
  e. On occurrence of an event which will lead to a Claim under this Policy, the Policyholder/ Insured  e. On occurrence of an event which will lead to a Claim under this Policy, the Policyholder/ Insured 
Person shall:
1718UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS18UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (9) Break----------------
  • Ambulance receipt and bill • Ambulance receipt and bill
  • Post mortem report, if available • Post mortem report, if available
  • Original bills from pharmacy / chemists • Original bills from pharmacy / chemists
  • Medical Practitioner's prescription advising drugs / diagnostic tests / consultation • Medical Practitioner's prescription advising drugs / diagnostic tests / consultation
  When original bills, receipts, prescriptions, reports and other documents are given to any other insurer or to  When original bills, receipts, prescriptions, reports and other documents are given to any other insurer or to 
the reimbursement provider, verified photocopies attested by such other insurer/reimbursement provider reimbursement provider, verified photocopies attested by such other insurer/reimbursement provider 
along with an original certificate of the extent of payment received from them needs to be submitted.with an original certificate of the extent of payment received from them needs to be submitted.
  • All invoices / bills should be in Insured Person's name. • All invoices / bills should be in Insured Person's name.
 Note :Note :
  • First Information Report/ Final Police Report, if applicable • First Information Report/ Final Police Report, if applicable
 4.5 Proportionate Deduction4.5 Proportionate Deduction
  The Policyholder / Insured Person shall submit to the TPA/Company/ Network Hospital (as applicable) the  The Policyholder / Insured Person shall submit to the TPA/Company/ Network Hospital (as applicable) the 
following documents for or in support of the Claim:
  • Indoor case papers • Indoor case papers
  • Medical Practitioner's referral letter advising Hospitalization • Medical Practitioner's referral letter advising Hospitalization
  • Duly completed and signed Claim Form, in original • Duly completed and signed Claim Form, in original
  • Original bills, receipts and discharge card from the Hospital / Medical Practitioner • Original bills, receipts and discharge card from the Hospital / Medical Practitioner
 4.4 Claim Documents4.4 Claim Documents
  • Original pathological / diagnostic test reports and payment receipts • Original pathological / diagnostic test reports and payment receipts
  • Claim once paid under one Benefit cannot be paid again under any other Benefit. • Claim once paid under one Benefit cannot be paid again under any other Benefit.
  • The Insured Person chooses a higher room category than the category that is eligible as per  • The Insured Person chooses a higher room category than the category that is eligible as per 
the terms and conditions of the Policy. In this case, higher room category means a room terms and conditions of the Policy. In this case, higher room category means a room 
category in which the room rent expenses charged by the Hospital is more expensive than ategory in which the room rent expenses charged by the Hospital is more expensive than 
the eligible room category as per the terms and conditions of the Policy.eligible room category as per the terms and conditions of the Policy.
  • The Insured Person chooses a room category in which the room rent charges are more than the  • The Insured Person chooses a room category in which the room rent charges are more than the 
applicable Sum Insured sub-limit (in percentage or Rupee terms) on the room rent as per the Sum Insured sub-limit (in percentage or Rupee terms) on the room rent as per the 
Policy terms and conditions.terms and conditions.
  In the above, Associate Medical Expense, means all admissible invoice break ups (or bill heads) of the  In the above, Associate Medical Expense, means all admissible invoice break ups (or bill heads) of the 
Hospitalization Medical Expenses as mentioned in Medical Expenses as mentioned in 
  • Any other document as required by the Company to assess the Claim • Any other document as required by the Company to assess the Claim
  Subject to the other Terms and Conditions of this Policy The Associate Medical Expenses (and the  Subject to the other Terms and Conditions of this Policy The Associate Medical Expenses (and the 
Room Rent) incurred by the Insured Person pertaining to a Hospitalization shall be proportionately reduced in Rent) incurred by the Insured Person pertaining to a Hospitalization shall be proportionately reduced in 
deriving at the payable amount of the corresponding Claim, in the event of (as the case maybe):at the payable amount of the corresponding Claim, in the event of (as the case maybe):
 4.6 Payment Terms4.6 Payment Terms
 4.6.2. Claims shall not be admissible under this Policy unless the TPA/Company has been provided with the 4.6.2. Claims shall not be admissible under this Policy unless the TPA/Company has been provided with the 
complete documentation / information which the Company has requested to establish its liability for the documentation / information which the Company has requested to establish its liability for the 
Claim, its circumstances and its quantum unless the Policyholder / Insured Person have complied with the its circumstances and its quantum unless the Policyholder / Insured Person have complied with the 
obligations under this Policy..
 4.6.1. This Policy covers medical treatment taken within India, and payments under this Policy shall be made 4.6.1. This Policy covers medical treatment taken within India, and payments under this Policy shall be made 
in Indian Rupees within India.
  • Cost of Implants and Medical Devices • Cost of Implants and Medical Devices
  • Cost of Diagnostics • Cost of Diagnostics
Benefit 1 (i.e. Inpatient Treatment) barring the below mentioned expense break ups:1 (i.e. Inpatient Treatment) barring the below mentioned expense break ups:
  • Cost of Pharmacy and Consumables • Cost of Pharmacy and Consumables
  The proportional reduction will be done in a manner consistent with the below table: The proportional reduction will be done in a manner consistent with the below table:
  Proportionate Deduction is subject to the following: Proportionate Deduction is subject to the following:
  • Apart from the Associate Medical Expenses, no other expenses will be proportionately reduced • Apart from the Associate Medical Expenses, no other expenses will be proportionately reduced
  • If the given Hospital do not follow differential billing or if there are items in the claim for which  • If the given Hospital do not follow differential billing or if there are items in the claim for which 
the Hospital do not follow differential billing, the Insurer shall not be proportionately reducing the Hospital do not follow differential billing, the Insurer shall not be proportionately reducing the 
Claims. This shall be applied in case of admissions in Government Hospitals and the laims. This shall be applied in case of admissions in Government Hospitals and the 
Network Hospitals of the Insurer.  of the Insurer. 
  • ICU charges shall not be proportionately reduced in all cases. • ICU charges shall not be proportionately reduced in all cases.
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
Actual Medical Bills IncurredIncurred
Covered Medical ExpensesExpenses
Actual Room Rent
Covered Medical Expenses which shall be subject to Proportionate DeductionExpenses which shall be subject to Proportionate Deduction
Claim after Proportionate Deduction Proportionate Deduction 
Ground up claim amount amount 
Amount afterCo-payCo-pay
Payable claim amount amount 
As per submitted documents
A – Any expense not covered under Policy Benefits – Any expense not covered under Policy Benefits
Room Rent (Including items to be subsumed under Room Rent as defined under Annexure A)be subsumed under Room Rent as defined under Annexure A)
B -  cost of Pharmacy and consumables, implants and medical devices and diagnosticsconsumables, implants and medical devices and diagnostics
D * Eligible Room Rent Limit ÷ Actual Room Rent Actual Room Rent 
(If Actual Room Rent is within eligibility, then no deduction to Actual Room Rent is within eligibility, then no deduction to 
be applied [E=D])
E + cost of Pharmacy and consumables, implants and medical devices and diagnosticsconsumables, implants and medical devices and diagnostics
F - Co-payment, if any on account of age account of age 
G – Deductions for Policy Deductibles and LimitsDeductibles and Limits
HeaderExplanationSr. No.ExplanationSr. No.
1920UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS20UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (10) Break----------------
   a. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the date of   a. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the date of 
receipt of last necessary document.
  5  General Terms & Conditions                                     erms & Conditions                                     
   c. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the   c. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the 
Company, it shall initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest, in any case not later , it shall initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest, in any case not later 
than 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. In such cases, the 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. In such cases, the 
Company shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary 
document.
 1. Disclosure of Information1. Disclosure of Information
   b. In the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the   b. In the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the 
policyholder from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of 
claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate.
 4.6.3. The Company shall not indemnify the Policyholder / Insured Person for any period of Hospitalization of 4.6.3. The Company shall not indemnify the Policyholder / Insured Person for any period of Hospitalization of 
less than 24 hours except for the Day Care Treatment, the list of which is annexed as per ess than 24 hours except for the Day Care Treatment, the list of which is annexed as per 
Annexure D (List of Day Care Treatments).Treatments).
 4.6.4. The Sum Insured of the Insured Person shall be reduced by the amount payable / paid under the 4.6.4. The Sum Insured of the Insured Person shall be reduced by the amount payable / paid under the 
Benefit(s) and the balance shall be available as the Sum Insured for the unexpired Policy Period.and the balance shall be available as the Sum Insured for the unexpired Policy Period.
  The Policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the  The Policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the 
event of misrepresentation, mis description or non-disclosure of any material fact by the of misrepresentation, mis description or non-disclosure of any material fact by the 
Policyholder..
 2.  Claim Settlement (provision for Penal Interest)2.  Claim Settlement (provision for Penal Interest)
 4.6.7. The Company will only be liable to pay for such Benefits for which the Policyholder has specifically 4.6.7. The Company will only be liable to pay for such Benefits for which the Policyholder has specifically 
claimed in the Claim Form.
 4.6.6. For the Reimbursement Claims, the TPA/Company will pay the Policyholder/Insured Person.4.6.6. For the Reimbursement Claims, the TPA/Company will pay the Policyholder/Insured Person.
 4.6.5. For Cashless Claims, the payment shall be made to the Network Hospital / TPA whose discharge would be 4.6.5. For Cashless Claims, the payment shall be made to the Network Hospital / TPA whose discharge would be 
complete and final.
 4.6.8 The Company shall settle the claim within 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. 4.6.8 The Company shall settle the claim within 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. 
However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in Company’s opinion it shall initiate , where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in Company’s opinion it shall initiate 
and complete such investigation at the earliest, in any case not later than 30 days from the date of receipt of complete such investigation at the earliest, in any case not later than 30 days from the date of receipt of 
last  necessary document. In such cases, Company shall settle the claim within 45 days from the date of  necessary document. In such cases, Company shall settle the claim within 45 days from the date of 
receipt of last necessary document.
  (Explanation: “Material facts” for the purpose of this policy shall mean all relevant information  (Explanation: “Material facts” for the purpose of this policy shall mean all relevant information 
sought by the company in the proposal form and other connected documents to enable it to take by the company in the proposal form and other connected documents to enable it to take 
informed decision in the context of underwriting the risk).decision in the context of underwriting the risk).
  The Policyholder/ Insured Person shall keep an accurate record containing all relevant medical  The Policyholder/ Insured Person shall keep an accurate record containing all relevant medical 
records and shall allow the Company or its representative(s) to inspect such records. The ecords and shall allow the Company or its representative(s) to inspect such records. The 
Policyholder/ Insured Person shall furnish such information as the Company may require under this olicyholder/ Insured Person shall furnish such information as the Company may require under this 
Policy at any time during the Policy Period and up to three years after the policy expiration, or until final at any time during the Policy Period and up to three years after the policy expiration, or until final 
adjustment (if any) and resolution of all Claims under this Policy.(if any) and resolution of all Claims under this Policy.
 4.  Reasonable Care4.  Reasonable Care
   The Policyholder/ Insured Person shall take all reasonable steps to safeguard the interests against   The Policyholder/ Insured Person shall take all reasonable steps to safeguard the interests against 
any Illness / Injury that may give rise to a Claim.
   (Explanation: “Bank rate” shall mean the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at the beginning of   (Explanation: “Bank rate” shall mean the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at the beginning of 
the financial year in which claim has fallen due)
 3.  Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability 3.  Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability 
   Any knowledge or information of any circumstance or condition in relation to the Policyholder/ Insured   Any knowledge or information of any circumstance or condition in relation to the Policyholder/ Insured 
Person which is in possession of the Company and not specifically informed by the Policyholder / Insured which is in possession of the Company and not specifically informed by the Policyholder / Insured 
Person shall not be held to bind or prejudicially affect the Company notwithstanding subsequent shall not be held to bind or prejudicially affect the Company notwithstanding subsequent 
acceptance of any premium.
 8.  Complete discharge8.  Complete discharge
   The terms and conditions of the Policy must be fulfilled by the Insured Person for the Company to   The terms and conditions of the Policy must be fulfilled by the Insured Person for the Company to 
make any payment for claim(s) arising under the policy.any payment for claim(s) arising under the policy.
   d. In case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the   d. In case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the 
policyholder at a rate 2% above the bank rate from the date of receipt of last necessary at a rate 2% above the bank rate from the date of receipt of last necessary 
document to the date of payment of claim. 
 5.  Material Change5.  Material Change
   The Policyholder shall immediately notify the Company in writing of any material change in the risk   The Policyholder shall immediately notify the Company in writing of any material change in the risk 
on account of change in occupation / business at his own expense and the Company may adjust the scope account of change in occupation / business at his own expense and the Company may adjust the scope 
of cover and/or premium, if necessary, accordingly., accordingly.
 7.  No constructive Notice7.  No constructive Notice
 9.  Multiple Policies9.  Multiple Policies
   a. In case of multiple policies taken by an Insured Person during a period from one or more insurers   a. In case of multiple policies taken by an Insured Person during a period from one or more insurers 
to indemnify treatment costs, the Insured Person shall have the right to require a settlement of indemnify treatment costs, the Insured Person shall have the right to require a settlement of 
his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. In all such cases the insurer chosen by the Insured claim in terms of any of his/her policies. In all such cases the insurer chosen by the Insured 
Person shall be obliged to settle the claim as long shall be obliged to settle the claim as long 
 6. Records to be maintained6. Records to be maintained
   Any payment to the Policyholder, Insured Person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal representative or   Any payment to the Policyholder, Insured Person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal representative or 
assignee or to the Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the Policy shall be a valid discharge or to the Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the Policy shall be a valid discharge 
towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent of that amount for the particular claim. payment of claim by the Company to the extent of that amount for the particular claim. 
2122UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS22UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (11) Break----------------
   a. the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the Insured Person does not believe   a. the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the Insured Person does not believe 
to be true;
 10.  Fraud10.  Fraud
as the claim is within the limits of and according to the terms of the chosen Policy.the terms of the chosen Policy.
   b. Insured Person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this Policy   b. Insured Person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this Policy 
for the amounts disallowed under any other Policy / Policies even if the Sum Insured is not the amounts disallowed under any other Policy / Policies even if the Sum Insured is not 
exhausted. Then the Insurer shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and Then the Insurer shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and 
conditions of this Policy..
   c. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured under a single Policy, the Insured Person   c. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured under a single Policy, the Insured Person 
shall have the right to choose insurer from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount.have the right to choose insurer from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount.
   d. Where an Insured Person has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same risk on   d. Where an Insured Person has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same risk on 
indemnity basis, the Insured Person shall only be indemnified the treatment costs in accordance basis, the Insured Person shall only be indemnified the treatment costs in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the chosen Policy.the terms and conditions of the chosen Policy.
   If any claim made by the Insured Person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or   If any claim made by the Insured Person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or 
declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the is made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the 
Insured Person or anyone acting  on  his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this Policy, all benefits Person or anyone acting  on  his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this Policy, all benefits 
under this Policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited.this Policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited.
   Any amount already paid against claims made under this Policy but which are found fraudulent later shall   Any amount already paid against claims made under this Policy but which are found fraudulent later shall 
be repaid by all recipient(s)/Policyholder(s), who has made  that particular claim, who shall be jointly and repaid by all recipient(s)/Policyholder(s), who has made  that particular claim, who shall be jointly and 
severally liable for such repayment to the insurer..
   For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts committed by the   For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts committed by the 
Insured Person or by his agent or the Hospital/ doctor/any other party acting on behalf of the Insured Person or by his agent or the Hospital/ doctor/any other party acting on behalf of the Insured 
Person, with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an Insurance Policy: with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an Insurance Policy:
   b. the active concealment of a fact by the Insured Person having knowledge or belief of the fact;  b. the active concealment of a fact by the Insured Person having knowledge or belief of the fact;
   c. any other act fitted to deceive; and  c. any other act fitted to deceive; and
   d. any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent.   d. any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent. 
 11.  Policy Disputes11.  Policy Disputes
   The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the Policy benefits on the ground of  Fraud, if   The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the Policy benefits on the ground of  Fraud, if 
the Insured Person / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge Insured Person / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge 
and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of 
material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer..
   Any and all disputes or differences under or in relation to validity, construction, interpretation and effect to   Any and all disputes or differences under or in relation to validity, construction, interpretation and effect to 
this Policy shall be determined by the Indian Courts and subject to Indian law.Policy shall be determined by the Indian Courts and subject to Indian law.
 12. Cancellation / Termination12. Cancellation / Termination
   a. The Policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 15days’ written notice and in such an event, the   a. The Policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 15days’ written notice and in such an event, the 
Company shall refund premium for the unexpired policy period as detailed below.shall refund premium for the unexpired policy period as detailed below.
   Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be made in   Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be made in 
respect of Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has been lodged or any benefit has been of Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has been lodged or any benefit has been 
availed by the insured person under the Policy..
  Refund % to be applied on Policy Premium Refund % to be applied on Policy Premium
   No refund of premium shall be made on Policy where premium is paid in installments.  No refund of premium shall be made on Policy where premium is paid in installments.
   b. The Company may cancel the Policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation, non-disclosure   b. The Company may cancel the Policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation, non-disclosure 
of material facts, fraud by the Insured Person by giving 15 days’ written notice. There would be no material facts, fraud by the Insured Person by giving 15 days’ written notice. There would be no 
refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of misrepresentation, non-disclosure of material of premium on cancellation on grounds of misrepresentation, non-disclosure of material 
facts or fraud. 
 14. Migration14. Migration
   The Insured Person will have the option to migrate the Policy to other health insurance products/plans   The Insured Person will have the option to migrate the Policy to other health insurance products/plans 
offered by the Company by applying for migration of the Policy atleast 30 days before the Policy renewal fered by the Company by applying for migration of the Policy atleast 30 days before the Policy renewal 
date as per lRDAl guidelines on Migration. If such person is presently covered and has been as per lRDAl guidelines on Migration. If such person is presently covered and has been 
continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance product/plan offered by  the covered without any lapses under any health insurance product/plan offered by  the 
Company, the Insured Person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per lRDAl , the Insured Person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per lRDAl 
guidelines on migration
 13. Limitation Period13. Limitation Period
   In no case whatsoever the Company shall be liable for any Claim under this Policy, if the requirement of   In no case whatsoever the Company shall be liable for any Claim under this Policy, if the requirement of 
Clause 4 above are not complied with, unless the Claim is the subject of pending action; it being 4 above are not complied with, unless the Claim is the subject of pending action; it being 
expressly agreed and declared that if the Company shall disclaim liability for any Claim hereunder and agreed and declared that if the Company shall disclaim liability for any Claim hereunder and 
such Claim shall not within 12 calendar months from the date of the disclaimer have been made the Claim shall not within 12 calendar months from the date of the disclaimer have been made the 
subject matter of a suit in court of law then the Claim shall for all purposes be deemed to have been matter of a suit in court of law then the Claim shall for all purposes be deemed to have been 
abandoned and shall not thereafter be recoverable hereunder.and shall not thereafter be recoverable hereunder.
   For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the www.irdai.gov.in(Circular-IRDA/HLT/REG/CIR/   For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the www.irdai.gov.in(Circular-IRDA/HLT/REG/CIR/ 
003/012020, Dated-01012020)
Beyond 6Months  0% 0%
Up to 1 month  75.0% 75.0%
Up to 3 months  50.0% 50.0%
Up to 6 months  25.0% 25.0%
Cancellation date up to  (x months) Refundfrom Policy Period Start DateRefundfrom Policy Period Start Date
1 yearPolicy Tenure - >Policy Tenure - >
2324UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS24UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (12) Break----------------
   f. Renewal premium may vary and shall be as per the respective master policy issued by Reliance   f. Renewal premium may vary and shall be as per the respective master policy issued by Reliance 
Genereal Insurance to the group at the time of renewal.Insurance to the group at the time of renewal.
   d. At the end of the Policy Period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the Grace   d. At the end of the Policy Period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the Grace 
Period (as agreed at the time of issuance of the Policy) to maintain continuity of benefits without (as agreed at the time of issuance of the Policy) to maintain continuity of benefits without 
break in policy. Coverage is not available during the grace period.in policy. Coverage is not available during the grace period.
 18. Moratorium Period18. Moratorium Period
 16. Renewal of Policy16. Renewal of Policy
 17. Withdrawal of Policy17. Withdrawal of Policy
   a. The Company shall endeavour to give notice for renewal. However, the Company is not under   a. The Company shall endeavour to give notice for renewal. However, the Company is not under 
obligation to give any notice for renewal.
   b. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured person had made a claim or claims in   b. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured person had made a claim or claims in 
the preceding Policy periods.
   For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly refer the www.irdai.gov.in(Circular-IRDA/HLT/REG/CIR/   For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly refer the www.irdai.gov.in(Circular-IRDA/HLT/REG/CIR/ 
003/012020, dated 01012020)
 15. Portability15. Portability
   e. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience.  e. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience.
   After completion of eight continuous years under the Policy no look back to be applied. This period of eight   After completion of eight continuous years under the Policy no look back to be applied. This period of eight 
years is called as Moratorium Period. The moratorium would be applicable for the Sums Insured of the first is called as Moratorium Period. The moratorium would be applicable for the Sums Insured of the first 
   The Insured Person will have the option to port the Policy to other insurers by applying to such insurer to   The Insured Person will have the option to port the Policy to other insurers by applying to such insurer to 
port the entire Policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days before, but not the entire Policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days before, but not 
earlier than 60 days from the Policy renewal date as per lRDAl guidelines related to portability. If such than 60 days from the Policy renewal date as per lRDAl guidelines related to portability. If such 
person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any  lapses  under  any erson is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any  lapses  under  any 
health insurance policy with an Indian General/Health insurer, the proposed Insured Person will get the insurance policy with an Indian General/Health insurer, the proposed Insured Person will get the 
accrued continuity benefits in Waiting Periods as per  lRDAl guidelines on portability.continuity benefits in Waiting Periods as per  lRDAl guidelines on portability.
   c. Request for renewal along with the requisite premium shall be received by the Company   c. Request for renewal along with the requisite premium shall be received by the Company 
before the end of the Policy Period
   b. Insured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product available with the   b. Insured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product available with the 
Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as cumulative at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as cumulative 
bonus, waiver of waiting period. as per lRDAl guidelines, provided the policy has been waiver of waiting period. as per lRDAl guidelines, provided the policy has been 
maintained without a break
   The Policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the Insured   The Policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the Insured 
Person.
   a. In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the Insured   a. In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the Insured 
Person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the Policy. 21. Communicationabout the same 90 days prior to expiry of the Policy. 21. Communication
 19. Premium Payment in Instalments (wherever applicable)19. Premium Payment in Instalments (wherever applicable)
   vii. The Company has the right to recover and deduct all the pending installments from the claim amount   vii. The Company has the right to recover and deduct all the pending installments from the claim amount 
due under the Policy.under the Policy.
   The Company, with prior approval of lRDAl, may revise or modify the terms of the policy including the   The Company, with prior approval of lRDAl, may revise or modify the terms of the policy including the 
premium rates. The Insured Person shall be notified three months before the changes are effected.rates. The Insured Person shall be notified three months before the changes are effected.
   v. In case of instalment premium due not received within the grace period, the policy will get   v. In case of instalment premium due not received within the grace period, the policy will get 
cancelled.
 20. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy Including the Premium Rates20. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy Including the Premium Rates
   iv. No interest will be charged If the instalment premium is not paid on due date.  iv. No interest will be charged If the instalment premium is not paid on due date.
policy and subsequently completion of 8 continuous years would be applicable from date of enhancement and subsequently completion of 8 continuous years would be applicable from date of enhancement 
of Sums Insured only on the enhanced limits. After the expiry of Moratorium Period no health insurance claim Sums Insured only on the enhanced limits. After the expiry of Moratorium Period no health insurance claim 
shall be contestable except for proven fraud and permanent exclusions specified in the policy contract. be contestable except for proven fraud and permanent exclusions specified in the policy contract. 
The policies would however be subject to all limits, sub limits, co-payments, deductibles as per the policy policies would however be subject to all limits, sub limits, co-payments, deductibles as per the policy 
contract.
   Any communication meant for the Company must be in writing and be delivered to its address shown in the   Any communication meant for the Company must be in writing and be delivered to its address shown in the 
Policy Schedule. Any communication meant for the Policyholder will be sent by the Company to his last Schedule. Any communication meant for the Policyholder will be sent by the Company to his last 
known address or the address as shown in the Policy Schedule.address or the address as shown in the Policy Schedule.
   vi. In the event of a claim, all subsequent premium instalments shall immediately become due and   vi. In the event of a claim, all subsequent premium instalments shall immediately become due and 
payable.
   ii. During such grace period, coverage will not be available from the due date of instalment premium   ii. During such grace period, coverage will not be available from the due date of instalment premium 
till the date of receipt of premium by Company..
   All notifications and declarations for the Company must be in writing and sent to the address specified in the   All notifications and declarations for the Company must be in writing and sent to the address specified in the 
Policy Schedule. Agents are not authorized to receive notices and declarations on the Company's behalf.Schedule. Agents are not authorized to receive notices and declarations on the Company's behalf.
   Notice and instructions will be deemed served 10 days after posting or immediately upon receipt in the case of   Notice and instructions will be deemed served 10 days after posting or immediately upon receipt in the case of 
hand delivery, facsimile or e-mail.delivery, facsimile or e-mail.
   If the Insured Person has opted for Payment of Premium on an instalment basis i.e. Half Yearly,   If the Insured Person has opted for Payment of Premium on an instalment basis i.e. Half Yearly, 
Quarterly or Monthly, as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance, the following or Monthly, as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance, the following 
Conditions shall apply (notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the policy)shall apply (notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the policy)
   iii. The Insured Person will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the ‘Waiting Periods’  ‘   iii. The Insured Person will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the ‘Waiting Periods’  ‘ 
Specific Waiting Periods’ in the event of payment of premium within the stipulated grace PeriodWaiting Periods’ in the event of payment of premium within the stipulated grace Period
   i. Grace Period as (as agreed at the time of issuance of the Policy) would be given to pay the   i. Grace Period as (as agreed at the time of issuance of the Policy) would be given to pay the 
instalment premium due for the Policy..
2526UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS26UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (13) Break----------------
   It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or dispute shall be preferable to arbitration, as   It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or dispute shall be preferable to arbitration, as 
hereinbefore provided, if the Company has disputed or not accepted liability under or in respect of this Policy.provided, if the Company has disputed or not accepted liability under or in respect of this Policy.
 22. Alterations in the Policy22. Alterations in the Policy
   This Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. No change or alteration shall be valid or   This Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. No change or alteration shall be valid or 
effective unless approved in writing by the Company, which approval shall be evidenced by a written fective unless approved in writing by the Company, which approval shall be evidenced by a written 
endorsement signed and stamped by the Company..
 23. Cause of Action23. Cause of Action
   Claims shall be payable under this Policy only if the cause of action arises in India.  Claims shall be payable under this Policy only if the cause of action arises in India.
 24. Overriding effect of Policy Schedule24. Overriding effect of Policy Schedule
   In case of any inconsistency in the terms and conditions in this Policy vis-a-vis the information   In case of any inconsistency in the terms and conditions in this Policy vis-a-vis the information 
contained in the Policy Schedule, the information contained in the Policy Schedule shall prevail.in the Policy Schedule, the information contained in the Policy Schedule shall prevail.
   The Company reserves the right to revise or modify this product / policy in future. The revision/modification   The Company reserves the right to revise or modify this product / policy in future. The revision/modification 
may be in respect of Benefits, coverage, premiums, policy terms and conditions &/or exclusions.be in respect of Benefits, coverage, premiums, policy terms and conditions &/or exclusions.
 26. Revision/Modification of the Product26. Revision/Modification of the Product
   In the event of any revision or modification of the product the company will notify the policyholder in   In the event of any revision or modification of the product the company will notify the policyholder in 
advance of such changes.
 27. Arbitration Clause27. Arbitration Clause
 25. Special Provisions25. Special Provisions
   Any special provisions subject to which this Policy has been entered into and endorsed in the Policy or in   Any special provisions subject to which this Policy has been entered into and endorsed in the Policy or in 
any separate instrument shall be deemed to be part of this Policy and shall have effect accordingly.separate instrument shall be deemed to be part of this Policy and shall have effect accordingly.
   If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid under this Policy (liability being   If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid under this Policy (liability being 
otherwise admitted) such difference shall independently of all other questions be referred to the therwise admitted) such difference shall independently of all other questions be referred to the 
decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the parties thereto or if they cannot agree upon a of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the parties thereto or if they cannot agree upon a 
single arbitrator within 30 days of any party invoking arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of arbitrator within 30 days of any party invoking arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of 
three arbitrators, comprising of two arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of the parties to the arbitrators, comprising of two arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of the parties to the 
dispute/difference and the third arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators and arbitration shall ference and the third arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators and arbitration shall 
be conducted under and in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,1996.conducted under and in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,1996.
   It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition precedent to any right of action or   It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition precedent to any right of action or 
suit upon this Policy that the award by such arbitrator/arbitrators of the amount of the loss or uit upon this Policy that the award by such arbitrator/arbitrators of the amount of the loss or 
damage shall be first obtained.
 28. Redressal of Grievances28. Redressal of Grievances
   In case of any grievance the Insured Person may contact the Company through   In case of any grievance the Insured Person may contact the Company through 
   Website: www. Relianceada.com   Toll free: 1800-3009  Website: www. Relianceada.com   Toll free: 1800-3009
   Dedicated Senior Citizen helpline: 022-33834185 (paid line)  Dedicated Senior Citizen helpline: 022-33834185 (paid line)
   E-mail: rgicl.services@relianceada.com   Fax:+91 22 3303 4662Courier: Any branch office, the   E-mail: rgicl.services@relianceada.com   Fax:+91 22 3303 4662Courier: Any branch office, the 
correspondence address, during normal business hours.address, during normal business hours.
   Insured Person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the Company’s branches with the details of   Insured Person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the Company’s branches with the details of 
grievance.
   Grievance Redressal Officer  Grievance Redressal Officer
   Write to us at: Reliance General Insurance, (Correspondence Only) Correspondence Unit, 301-  Write to us at: Reliance General Insurance, (Correspondence Only) Correspondence Unit, 301-
302, Corporate House RNT Marg, Opp. Jhabua Tower, Indore, Madhya Pradesh, India – 452001Corporate House RNT Marg, Opp. Jhabua Tower, Indore, Madhya Pradesh, India – 452001
   If Insured Person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above methods, Insured   If Insured Person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above methods, Insured 
Person may contact the grievance officer at:ficer at:
   (For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link.  (For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link.
   Reliance General Insurance Co. Limited   The Grievance Cell,    No. 1-89/3/B/40 to 42/ks/301, 3rd floor,   Reliance General Insurance Co. Limited   The Grievance Cell,    No. 1-89/3/B/40 to 42/ks/301, 3rd floor, 
   Krishe Block, Krishe Sapphire, Madhapur  Krishe Block, Krishe Sapphire, Madhapur
   If Insured Person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods, the Insured   If Insured Person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods, the Insured 
Person may also approach the office of Insurance Ombudsman of the respective area/region for may also approach the office of Insurance Ombudsman of the respective area/region for 
redressal of grievance as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules 2017. of grievance as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules 2017. 
   Hyderabad – 500 081  Hyderabad – 500 081
   Grievance Redressal officer email ID: rgicl.headgrievances@relianceada.com  Grievance Redressal officer email ID: rgicl.headgrievances@relianceada.com
   Grievance may also be lodged at lRDAl Integrated Grievance Management Systemhttps://igms. irda.qov. in/  Grievance may also be lodged at lRDAl Integrated Grievance Management Systemhttps://igms. irda.qov. in/
   our website www.reliancegeneral.co.in  our website www.reliancegeneral.co.in
   https: / / reliance general.co.in/ Insurance/About -Us/Grievance- Redressal.aspx  https: / / reliance general.co.in/ Insurance/About -Us/Grievance- Redressal.aspx
       IRDAI Registration No. 103. UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021      IRDAI Registration No. 103. UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021
   The contact details of the Insurance Ombudsman offices have been provided as Annexure-B  The contact details of the Insurance Ombudsman offices have been provided as Annexure-B
2728UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS28UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (14) Break----------------
 19 SLINGS19 SLINGS
 23 SURCHARGES23 SURCHARGES
 21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE   ALSO CHARGED21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE   ALSO CHARGED
 18 EYELET COLLAR18 EYELET COLLAR
 24 ATTENDANT CHARGES24 ATTENDANT CHARGES
 25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT   WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT   WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)
 20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF   DONORS SAMPLES20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF   DONORS SAMPLES
 26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE
 17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE
 27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES
 28 COURIER CHARGES28 COURIER CHARGES
 22 Television Charges22 Television Charges
 29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES
 34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES
 37 SPIROMETRE37 SPIROMETRE
 35 OXYGEN CYLINDER  (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL)35 OXYGEN CYLINDER  (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL)
 36 SPACER36 SPACER
 33 MORTUARY CHARGES33 MORTUARY CHARGES
 32 PHOTOCOPY ES CHARGES32 PHOTOCOPY ES CHARGES
 31 MEDICAL RECORDS31 MEDICAL RECORDS
 30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE
 SI. No. ItemSI. No. Item
 3 BEAUTY SERVICES3 BEAUTY SERVICES
 4 BELTS/ BRACES4 BELTS/ BRACES
 5 BUDS5 BUDS
 7 CARRY BAGS7 CARRY BAGS
 8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES
 6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK
ANNEXURE-A
1. List I — Items for which coverage is not available in the  policyList I — Items for which coverage is not available in the  policy
 9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET   PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET   PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)
 10 LEGGING S10 LEGGING S
 14 TELEPHONE CHARGES14 TELEPHONE CHARGES
 15 GUEST SERVICES15 GUEST SERVICES
 16 CREPE BANDAGE16 CREPE BANDAGE
 11 LAUNDRY CHARGES11 LAUNDRY CHARGES
 12 MINERAL WATER12 MINERAL WATER
 1 BABY FOOD1 BABY FOOD
 2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES
 13 SANITARY PAD13 SANITARY PAD
 66 UROMETER, URINE JUG66 UROMETER, URINE JUG
 43 SPLINT43 SPLINT
 58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED   [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT,RECOVERY KIT, ETC]58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED   [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT,RECOVERY KIT, ETC]
 63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT
 48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES
 55 ECG ELECTRODES55 ECG ELECTRODES
 54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS  (Toiletries are not payable, only prescribed medical 54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS  (Toiletries are not payable, only prescribed medical 
  pharmaceuticals payable) pharmaceuticals payable)
 50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT
 41 THERMOMETER41 THERMOMETER
2. List II — Items that are to be subsumed into Room  ChargesList II — Items that are to be subsumed into Room  Charges
 38 NEBULIZE R KIT38 NEBULIZE R KIT
 40 ARMSLING40 ARMSLING
 44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR
 49 AMBULANCE COLLAR49 AMBULANCE COLLAR
 53 SUGAR FREE Tablets53 SUGAR FREE Tablets
 46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER
 42 CERVICAL COLLAR42 CERVICAL COLLAR
 51 ABDOMINAL BINDER51 ABDOMINAL BINDER
 60 MASK60 MASK
 47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT
 39 STEAM INHALER39 STEAM INHALER
 52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING   CHARGES52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING   CHARGES
 56 GLOVES56 GLOVES
 57 NEBULISATION KIT57 NEBULISATION KIT
 59 KIDNEY TRAY59 KIDNEY TRAY
 61 OUNCE GLASS61 OUNCE GLASS
 62 OXYGEN MASK62 OXYGEN MASK
 64 PAN CAN64 PAN CAN
 65 TROLLY COVER65 TROLLY COVER
 45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)
 67 AMBULANCE67 AMBULANCE
 68 VASOFIX SAFETY68 VASOFIX SAFETY
 SI. No. ItemSI. No. Item
 1 BABY CHARGES  (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED)1 BABY CHARGES  (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED)
 2 HAND WASH2 HAND WASH
 4 CAPS4 CAPS
 6 COMB6 COMB
 5 CRADLE CHARGES5 CRADLE CHARGES
 3 SHOE COVER3 SHOE COVER
2930UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS30UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (15) Break----------------
 8 FOOT COVER8 FOOT COVER
 7 EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS7 EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS
 10 SLIPPERS10 SLIPPERS
 11 TISSUE PAPER11 TISSUE PAPER
 12 TOOTH PASTE12 TOOTH PASTE
 13 TOOTH BRUSH13 TOOTH BRUSH
 14 BED PAN14 BED PAN
 9 GOWN9 GOWN
 25 CLEAN SHEET25 CLEAN SHEET
 30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES
 17 HAND HOLDER17 HAND HOLDER
 19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS
 22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES
 SI. No. ItemSI. No. Item
 36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG
 6 DVD, CD CHARGES6 DVD, CD CHARGES
 35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES  (NOT EXPLAINED)35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES  (NOT EXPLAINED)
 15 FACE MASK15 FACE MASK
 24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES
 26 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET26 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET
 27 ADMISSION KIT27 ADMISSION KIT
 23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES
 20 LUXURY TAX20 LUXURY TAX
 16 FLEXI MASK16 FLEXI MASK
 18 SPUTUM CUP18 SPUTUM CUP
 21 HVAC21 HVAC
 28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES
 29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES /   ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES /   ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
 31 DAILY CHART CHARGES31 DAILY CHART CHARGES
 32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES
 33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON   DISCHARGE33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON   DISCHARGE
 37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES
3.  List III — Items that are to be subsumed into Procedure      ChargesList III — Items that are to be subsumed into Procedure      Charges
 1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM
 34 FILE OPENING CHARGES34 FILE OPENING CHARGES
 2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES  (for site preparations)2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES  (for site preparations)
 3 EYE PAD3 EYE PAD
 4 EYE SHEILD4 EYE SHEILD
 5 CAMERA COVER5 CAMERA COVER
 7 GAUSE SOFT7 GAUSE SOFT
 9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES
 8 GAUZE8 GAUZE
 10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY   INSTRUMENTS10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY   INSTRUMENTS
 11 MICROSCOPE COVER11 MICROSCOPE COVER
 12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,   SHAVER12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,   SHAVER
 13 SURGICAL DRILL13 SURGICAL DRILL
 14 EYE KIT14 EYE KIT
 5 BIPAP MACHINE5 BIPAP MACHINE
 21 APRON21 APRON
 4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE   NATAL BOOKING CHARGES4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE   NATAL BOOKING CHARGES
 17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES
4.   List IV — Items that are to be subsumed into costs of      treatment  List IV — Items that are to be subsumed into costs of      treatment
 SI. No. ItemItem
 11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH
 14 VACCINATION CHARGES14 VACCINATION CHARGES
 18 COTTON18 COTTON
 2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/   DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/   DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE
 16 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM16 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM
 10 HIV KIT10 HIV KIT
 19 COTTON BANDAGE19 COTTON BANDAGE
 7 INFUSION PUMP— COST7 INFUSION PUMP— COST
 9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES -   DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET CHARGES9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES -   DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET CHARGES
 8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\   DISINFECTANTS ETC8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\   DISINFECTANTS ETC
 20 SURGICAL TAPE20 SURGICAL TAPE
 12 LOZENGES12 LOZENGES
 1 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES1 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES
 13 MOUTH PAINT13 MOUTH PAINT
 15 ALCOHOL SWABES15 ALCOHOL SWABES
 23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE
 3 URINE CONTAINER3 URINE CONTAINER
 18 URINE BAG18 URINE BAG
 15 EYE DRAPE15 EYE DRAPE
 16 X-RAY FILM16 X-RAY FILM
 22 TORNIQUET22 TORNIQUET
 6 CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS6 CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS
 17 Glucometer & Strips17 Glucometer & Strips
3132UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS32UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (16) Break----------------
Annexure D – List of Day Care Procedures
 1 Microsurgical operations on the middle ear1 Microsurgical operations on the middle ear
 1. Stapedotomy to treat various lesions in middle ear1. Stapedotomy to treat various lesions in middle ear
 2. Revision of a stapedectomy2. Revision of a stapedectomy
 3. Other operations on the auditory ossicles3. Other operations on the auditory ossicles
 4. Myringoplasty (post-aura/endaural approach as well   as simple Type -I Tympanoplasty)4. Myringoplasty (post-aura/endaural approach as well   as simple Type -I Tympanoplasty)
 5. Tympanoplasty (closure of an eardrum perforation/   reconstruction of the auditory ossicles)5. Tympanoplasty (closure of an eardrum perforation/   reconstruction of the auditory ossicles)
 6. Revision of a tympanoplasty6. Revision of a tympanoplasty
 7. Other microsurgical operations on the middle ear7. Other microsurgical operations on the middle ear
 9. Myringotomy9. Myringotomy
 29. Excision and destruction of diseased tissue of   the eyelid29. Excision and destruction of diseased tissue of   the eyelid
 26. Incision of diseased eyelids26. Incision of diseased eyelids
 18. Other operations on the middle and inner ear18. Other operations on the middle and inner ear
 13. Reconstruction of the middle ear13. Reconstruction of the middle ear
 19. Removal of Keratosis Obturans19. Removal of Keratosis Obturans
 12. Mastoidectomy12. Mastoidectomy
 20. Excision and destruction of diseased tissue of   the nose20. Excision and destruction of diseased tissue of   the nose
 25. Other operations on the tear ducts25. Other operations on the tear ducts
 30. Operations on the canthus and epicanthus30. Operations on the canthus and epicanthus
 32. Corrective surgery for blepharoptosis32. Corrective surgery for blepharoptosis
 34. Removal of a foreign body from the cornea34. Removal of a foreign body from the cornea
 4. Operations on the eyes4. Operations on the eyes
 31. Corrective surgery for entropion and ectropion31. Corrective surgery for entropion and ectropion
 15. Fenestration of the inner ear15. Fenestration of the inner ear
 3. Operations on the nose & the nasal sinuses3. Operations on the nose & the nasal sinuses
 14. Other excisions of the middle and inner ear14. Other excisions of the middle and inner ear
 16. Revision of a fenestration of the inner ear16. Revision of a fenestration of the inner ear
 22. Other operations on the nose22. Other operations on the nose
 23. Nasal sinus aspiration Foreign body removal  from nose23. Nasal sinus aspiration Foreign body removal  from nose
 24. Incision of tear glands24. Incision of tear glands
 27. Correction of Eyelid Ptosis by Levator Palpebrae   Superioris Resection (bilateral)27. Correction of Eyelid Ptosis by Levator Palpebrae   Superioris Resection (bilateral)
 21. Operations on the turbinates (nasal concha)21. Operations on the turbinates (nasal concha)
 2. Other operations on the middle & internal ear2. Other operations on the middle & internal ear
 28. Correction of Eyelid Ptosis by Fascia Lata Graft   (bilateral)28. Correction of Eyelid Ptosis by Fascia Lata Graft   (bilateral)
 33.  Removal of a foreign body from the conjunctiva33.  Removal of a foreign body from the conjunctiva
 11. Incision of the mastoid process and middle ear11. Incision of the mastoid process and middle ear
 35. Incision of the cornea35. Incision of the cornea
 36. Operations for pterygium36. Operations for pterygium
 37. Other operations on the cornea37. Other operations on the cornea
 10. Removal of a tympanic drain10. Removal of a tympanic drain
 17. Incision (opening) and destruction (elimination) of the   inner ear17. Incision (opening) and destruction (elimination) of the   inner ear
 43. Anterior chamber Paracentesis/Cyclodiathermy/ 43. Anterior chamber Paracentesis/Cyclodiathermy/ 
  Cyclocryotherapy/Goniotomy/Trabeculotomy and  Cyclocryotherapy/Goniotomy/Trabeculotomy and 
  Filtering and Allied Operations to treat glaucoma Filtering and Allied Operations to treat glaucoma
 38. Removal of a foreign body from the lens of the eye38. Removal of a foreign body from the lens of the eye
 39. Removal of a foreign body from the posterior 39. Removal of a foreign body from the posterior 
  chamber of the eye chamber of the eye
 40. Removal of a foreign body from the orbit and eyeball40. Removal of a foreign body from the orbit and eyeball
 41. Operation of cataract41. Operation of cataract
 42. Diathermy/Cryotherapy to treat retinal tear42. Diathermy/Cryotherapy to treat retinal tear
 45. Dacryocystorhinostomy for various lesions of Lacrimal 45. Dacryocystorhinostomy for various lesions of Lacrimal 
  Gland Gland
 46. Laser Photocoagulation to treat Ratinal Tear46. Laser Photocoagulation to treat Ratinal Tear
 49. Surgical wound toilet (wound debridement) and 49. Surgical wound toilet (wound debridement) and 
  removal of diseased tissue of the skin and removal of diseased tissue of the skin and
  subcutaneous tissues subcutaneous tissues
 51. Other excisions of the skin and subcutaneous tissues51. Other excisions of the skin and subcutaneous tissues
 54. Free skin transplantation, recipient site54. Free skin transplantation, recipient site
 47. Incision of a pilonidal sinus47. Incision of a pilonidal sinus
 59. Reconstruction of Deformity/Defect in Nail Bed59. Reconstruction of Deformity/Defect in Nail Bed
 44. Enucleation of Eye without Implant44. Enucleation of Eye without Implant
 60. Incision, excision and destruction of diseased tissue 60. Incision, excision and destruction of diseased tissue 
  of the tongue of the tongue
 6. Operations on the tongue6. Operations on the tongue
 63. Reconstruction of the tongue63. Reconstruction of the tongue
 52. Simple restoration of surface continuity of the skin 52. Simple restoration of surface continuity of the skin 
  and subcutaneous tissues and subcutaneous tissues
 48. Other incisions of the skin and subcutaneous tissues48. Other incisions of the skin and subcutaneous tissues
 62. Glossectomy62. Glossectomy
 64. Other operations on the tongue64. Other operations on the tongue
 5. Operations on the skin & subcutaneous tissues5. Operations on the skin & subcutaneous tissues
 53. Free skin transplantation, donor site53. Free skin transplantation, donor site
 7. Operations on the salivary glands & salivary ducts7. Operations on the salivary glands & salivary ducts
 65. Incision and lancing of a salivary gland and a 65. Incision and lancing of a salivary gland and a 
  salivary duct salivary duct
 66. Excision of diseased tissue of a salivary gland and a 66. Excision of diseased tissue of a salivary gland and a 
  salivary duct salivary duct
 56. Other restoration and reconstruction of the skin and 56. Other restoration and reconstruction of the skin and 
  subcutaneous tissues. subcutaneous tissues.
 57. Chemosurgery to the skin.57. Chemosurgery to the skin.
 50. Local excision of diseased tissue of the skin and 50. Local excision of diseased tissue of the skin and 
  subcutaneous tissues subcutaneous tissues
 55. Revision of skin plasty55. Revision of skin plasty
 58. Destruction of diseased tissue in the skin and 58. Destruction of diseased tissue in the skin and 
  subcutaneous tissues subcutaneous tissues
 61. Partial glossectomy61. Partial glossectomy
 68. Reconstruction of a salivary gland and a salivary duct68. Reconstruction of a salivary gland and a salivary duct
 67. Resection of a salivary gland67. Resection of a salivary gland
 69. Other operations on the salivary glands and 69. Other operations on the salivary glands and 
  salivary ducts salivary ducts
3334UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS34UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (17) Break----------------
 108. Other operations on the Fallopian tube108. Other operations on the Fallopian tube
 107. Insufflations of the Fallopian tubes107. Insufflations of the Fallopian tubes
 109. Dilatation of the cervical canal109. Dilatation of the cervical canal
 115. Incision of the uterus (hysterectomy)115. Incision of the uterus (hysterectomy)
 110. Conisation of the uterine cervix110. Conisation of the uterine cervix
 116. Local excision and destruction of diseased tissue of   the vagina and the pouch of Douglas116. Local excision and destruction of diseased tissue of   the vagina and the pouch of Douglas
 117. Incision of vagina117. Incision of vagina
 119. Culdotomy119. Culdotomy
 120. Operations on Bartholin's glands (cyst)120. Operations on Bartholin's glands (cyst)
 121. Salpingo-Oophorectomy via Laparotomy121. Salpingo-Oophorectomy via Laparotomy
 13. Operations on the prostate & seminal vesicles13. Operations on the prostate & seminal vesicles
 112. Therapeutic curettage with Colposcopy/Biopsy/   Diathermy/Cryosurgery/112. Therapeutic curettage with Colposcopy/Biopsy/   Diathermy/Cryosurgery/
 122. Incision of the prostate122. Incision of the prostate
 106. Incision of the ovary106. Incision of the ovary
 113. Laser Therapy of Cervix for Various lesions of Uterus113. Laser Therapy of Cervix for Various lesions of Uterus
 114. Other operations on the uterine cervix114. Other operations on the uterine cervix
 123. Transurethral excision and destruction of  prostate tissue123. Transurethral excision and destruction of  prostate tissue
 124. Transurethral and percutaneous destruction of   prostate tissue124. Transurethral and percutaneous destruction of   prostate tissue
 125. Open surgical excision and destruction of  prostate tissue125. Open surgical excision and destruction of  prostate tissue
 12. Operations on the female sexual organs12. Operations on the female sexual organs
 118. Incision of vulva118. Incision of vulva
 14. Operations on the scrotum & tunica vaginalis testis14. Operations on the scrotum & tunica vaginalis testis
 144. Other operations on the testis144. Other operations on the testis
 134. Other operations on the scrotum and tunica   vaginalis testis134. Other operations on the scrotum and tunica   vaginalis testis
 142. Reconstruction of the testis142. Reconstruction of the testis
 143. Implantation, exchange and removal of a testicular   prosthesis143. Implantation, exchange and removal of a testicular   prosthesis
 139. Orchidopexy139. Orchidopexy
 132. Operation on a testicular hydrocele132. Operation on a testicular hydrocele
 136. Excision and destruction of diseased tissue of  the testes136. Excision and destruction of diseased tissue of  the testes
 137. Unilateral orchidectomy137. Unilateral orchidectomy
 130. Other operations on the prostate130. Other operations on the prostate
 127. Other excision and destruction of prostate tissue127. Other excision and destruction of prostate tissue
 131. Incision of the scrotum and tunica vaginalis testis131. Incision of the scrotum and tunica vaginalis testis
 133. Excision and destruction of diseased scrotal tissue133. Excision and destruction of diseased scrotal tissue
 15. Operations on the testes15. Operations on the testes
 140. Abdominal exploration in cryptorchidism140. Abdominal exploration in cryptorchidism
 141. Surgical repositioning of an abdominal testis141. Surgical repositioning of an abdominal testis
 128. Operations on the seminal vesicles128. Operations on the seminal vesicles
 129. Incision and excision of periprostatic tissue129. Incision and excision of periprostatic tissue
 138. Bilateral orchidectomy138. Bilateral orchidectomy
 135. Incision of the testes135. Incision of the testes
 126. Radical prostatovesiculectomy126. Radical prostatovesiculectomy
 99. Therapeutic Laparoscopy with Laser99. Therapeutic Laparoscopy with Laser
 83. Closed reduction on fracture, luxation or   epiphyseolysis with osteosynthesis83. Closed reduction on fracture, luxation or   epiphyseolysis with osteosynthesis
 81. Trauma surgery and orthopaedics81. Trauma surgery and orthopaedics
 94. Division of the anal sphincter (sphincterotomy)94. Division of the anal sphincter (sphincterotomy)
 86. Arthroscopic knee aspiration86. Arthroscopic knee aspiration
 103. Excision of renal cyst103. Excision of renal cyst
 70. External incision and drainage in the region of the 70. External incision and drainage in the region of the 
  mouth, jaw and face mouth, jaw and face
 85. Reduction of dislocation under GA85. Reduction of dislocation under GA
 79. Excision and destruction of a lingual tonsil79. Excision and destruction of a lingual tonsil
 71. Incision of the hard and soft palate71. Incision of the hard and soft palate
 75. Other operations in the mouth75. Other operations in the mouth
 87. Adenoidectomy87. Adenoidectomy
 74. Palatoplasty74. Palatoplasty
 10. Operations on the breast10. Operations on the breast
 80. Other operations on the tonsils and adenoids80. Other operations on the tonsils and adenoids
 72. Excision and destruction of diseased hard and  soft palate72. Excision and destruction of diseased hard and  soft palate
 9. Operations on the tonsils & adenoids9. Operations on the tonsils & adenoids
 73. Incision, excision and destruction in the mouth73. Incision, excision and destruction in the mouth
 78. Tonsillectomy with adenoidectomy78. Tonsillectomy with adenoidectomy
 77. Tonsillectomy without adenoidectomy77. Tonsillectomy without adenoidectomy
 82. Incision on bone, septic and aseptic82. Incision on bone, septic and aseptic
 84. Suture and other operations on tendons and tendon   sheath84. Suture and other operations on tendons and tendon   sheath
 88. Incision of the breast abscess88. Incision of the breast abscess
 89. Operations on the nipple89. Operations on the nipple
 8. Other operations on the mouth & face8. Other operations on the mouth & face
 76. Transoral incision and drainage of a pharyngeal   abscess76. Transoral incision and drainage of a pharyngeal   abscess
 90. Excision of single breast lump90. Excision of single breast lump
 11. Operations on the digestive tract,Kidney and Bladder11. Operations on the digestive tract,Kidney and Bladder
 91. Incision and excision of tissue in the perianal region91. Incision and excision of tissue in the perianal region
 92. Surgical treatment of anal fistulas92. Surgical treatment of anal fistulas
 93. Surgical treatment of hemorrhoids93. Surgical treatment of hemorrhoids
 95. Other operations on the anus95. Other operations on the anus
 96. Ultrasound guided aspirations96. Ultrasound guided aspirations
 97. Sclerotherapy, etc.97. Sclerotherapy, etc.
 98. Laparotomy for grading Lymphoma with   Splenectomy/Liver/Lymph Node Biopsy98. Laparotomy for grading Lymphoma with   Splenectomy/Liver/Lymph Node Biopsy
 102. Lithotripsy/Nephrolithotomy for renal calculus102. Lithotripsy/Nephrolithotomy for renal calculus
 105. Appendicectomy with/without Drainage105. Appendicectomy with/without Drainage
 100. Cholecystectomy and Choledocho-Jejunostomy/   Duodenostomy/Gastrostomy/Exploration100. Cholecystectomy and Choledocho-Jejunostomy/   Duodenostomy/Gastrostomy/Exploration
  Common Bile Duct Common Bile Duct
 101. Esophagoscopy, gastroscopy, duodenoscopy with   polypectomy / removal of foreign body/diathermy of 101. Esophagoscopy, gastroscopy, duodenoscopy with   polypectomy / removal of foreign body/diathermy of 
  bleeding lesions bleeding lesions
 104. Drainage of Pyonephrosis/Perinephric Abscess104. Drainage of Pyonephrosis/Perinephric Abscess
3536UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS36UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (18) Break----------------
 16. Operations on the spermatic cord, epididymis   und ductus deferens16. Operations on the spermatic cord, epididymis   und ductus deferens
 147. Epididymectomy147. Epididymectomy
 157. External Arterio-venous Shunt157. External Arterio-venous Shunt
 160. Cancer Chemotherapy160. Cancer Chemotherapy
 20. Operations of bones and joints20. Operations of bones and joints
 163. Surgery for meniscus tear163. Surgery for meniscus tear
 17. Operations on the penis17. Operations on the penis
 18. Operations on the urinary system18. Operations on the urinary system
 158. Haemodialysis158. Haemodialysis
 153. Catheterisation of Bladder153. Catheterisation of Bladder
 145. Surgical treatment of a varicocele and a hydrocele   of the spermatic cord145. Surgical treatment of a varicocele and a hydrocele   of the spermatic cord
 146. Excision in the area of the epididymis146. Excision in the area of the epididymis
 150. Amputation of the penis150. Amputation of the penis
 152. Cystoscopical removal of stones152. Cystoscopical removal of stones
 148. Operations on the foreskin148. Operations on the foreskin
 149. Local excision and destruction of diseased tissue of   the penis149. Local excision and destruction of diseased tissue of   the penis
 19. Other Operations19. Other Operations
 154. Lithotripsy154. Lithotripsy
 155. Coronary angiography155. Coronary angiography
 156. Biopsy ofTemporal Artery for Various Lesions156. Biopsy ofTemporal Artery for Various Lesions
 151. Other operations on the penis151. Other operations on the penis
 159. Radiotherapy for Cancer159. Radiotherapy for Cancer
 161. Endoscopic polypectomy161. Endoscopic polypectomy
 162. Surgery for ligament tear162. Surgery for ligament tear
 164. Surgery for hemoarthrosis/pyoarthrosis164. Surgery for hemoarthrosis/pyoarthrosis
 165. Removal of fracture pins/nails165. Removal of fracture pins/nails
 166. Removal of metal wire166. Removal of metal wire
 167. Closed reduction on fracture, luxation167. Closed reduction on fracture, luxation
 168. Reduction of dislocation under GA168. Reduction of dislocation under GA
 170. Excision of Bursirtis170. Excision of Bursirtis
 171. Tennis Elbow Release171. Tennis Elbow Release
 172. Excision of Various Lesions in Coccyx 172. Excision of Various Lesions in Coccyx 
 169. Epiphyseolysis with osteosynthesis169. Epiphyseolysis with osteosynthesis
Below mentioned Diseases maybe permanently excluded under the Policy in the case where such Diseases are Pre-Existing at mentioned Diseases maybe permanently excluded under the Policy in the case where such Diseases are Pre-Existing at 
the time of first proposal of this Product with the Companytime of first proposal of this Product with the Company
Annexure F
Sarcoidosis
Epilepsy
Heart Ailment Congenital heart disease and valvular heart diseaseAilment Congenital heart disease and valvular heart disease
Malignant NeoplasmsNeoplasms
D86.0-D86.9
G40 Epilepsy
I49 Other cardiac arrhythmias, (I20-I25)Ischemic heart diseases, I50 I25)Ischemic heart diseases, I50 
Heart failure, I42Cardiomyopathy; I05-I09 - Chronic rheumaticheart failure, I42Cardiomyopathy; I05-I09 - Chronic rheumaticheart 
diseases. • Q20  Congenital malformations of cardiac chambers iseases. • Q20  Congenital malformations of cardiac chambers 
and connections • Q21 Congenital malformations of cardiac septa connections • Q21 Congenital malformations of cardiac septa 
• Q22 Congenital malformations of pulmonary and tricuspid valves Q22 Congenital malformations of pulmonary and tricuspid valves 
• Q23 Congenital malformations of Q23 Congenital malformations of 
1
3
4
2C00-C14 Malignant neoplasms of lip, oral cavity and pharynx, • C15-C00-C14 Malignant neoplasms of lip, oral cavity and pharynx, • C15-
C26  Malignant neoplasms of digestive organs, • C30-C39 26  Malignant neoplasms of digestive organs, • C30-C39 
Malignant neoplasms of respiratory and intrathoracic organs • C40-C41 neoplasms of respiratory and intrathoracic organs • C40-C41 
Malignant neoplasms of bone and articular cartilage • C43-C44 neoplasms of bone and articular cartilage • C43-C44 
Melanoma and other malignant neoplasms of skin • C45-C49  elanoma and other malignant neoplasms of skin • C45-C49  
Malignant neoplasms of mesothelial and soft tissue • C50-C50  Malignant neoplasms of mesothelial and soft tissue • C50-C50  Malignant 
neoplasms of breast • C51-C58 Malignant neoplasms of female of breast • C51-C58 Malignant neoplasms of female 
genital organs • C60-C63 Malignant neoplasms of male genital organs• C64-C68 Malignant neoplasms of neoplasms of male genital organs• C64-C68 Malignant neoplasms of 
urinary tract • C69-C72 Malignant neoplasms of eye, brain and other tract • C69-C72 Malignant neoplasms of eye, brain and other 
parts of central nervous system• C73-C75 Malignant neoplasms of of central nervous system• C73-C75 Malignant neoplasms of 
thyroid and other endocrine glands• C76-C80 Malignant neoplasms of and other endocrine glands• C76-C80 Malignant neoplasms of 
ill-defined, other secondary and unspecified sites • C7A-C7A other secondary and unspecified sites • C7A-C7A 
Malignant neuroendocrine tumours• C7B-C7B Secondary neuroendocrine tumours• C7B-C7B Secondary 
neuroendocrine tumours • C81-C96 Malignant neoplasms of lymphoid, tumours • C81-C96 Malignant neoplasms of lymphoid, 
hematopoietic and related tissue• D00-D09  In situ neoplasms • D10-and related tissue• D00-D09  In situ neoplasms • D10-
D36 Benign neoplasms, except benign neuroendocrine tumours36 Benign neoplasms, except benign neuroendocrine tumours
• D37-D48 Neoplasms of uncertain behaviour, polycythaemia vera and D37-D48 Neoplasms of uncertain behaviour, polycythaemia vera and 
myelodysplastic syndromes • D3A-D3A   Benign neuroendocrine syndromes • D3A-D3A   Benign neuroendocrine 
tumours • D49-D49 Neoplasms of unspecified behaviour• D49-D49 Neoplasms of unspecified behaviour
Sr. No.DiseaseICD Code. No.DiseaseICD Code
3738UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS38UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (19) Break----------------
Cerebrovascular disease (Stroke)ar disease (Stroke)
Inflammatory Bowel DiseasesBowel Diseases
Chronic Liver diseasesdiseases
Pancreatic diseasesdiseases
Chronic Kidney diseasedisease
I67 Other cerebrovascular diseases, (I60-I69) Cerebrovascular diseasesdiseases, (I60-I69) Cerebrovascular diseases
K 50.0 to K 50.9 (including Crohn's and Ulcerative colitis)50.0 to K 50.9 (including Crohn's and Ulcerative colitis)
K50.0 - Crohn's disease of small intestine; K50.1 -Crohn's disease of - Crohn's disease of small intestine; K50.1 -Crohn's disease of 
large intestine; K50.8 - Other Crohn's disease; K50.9 - Crohn's disease, intestine; K50.8 - Other Crohn's disease; K50.9 - Crohn's disease, 
unspecified. K51.0 - Ulcerative (chronic) enterocolitis; K51.8 -Other nspecified. K51.0 - Ulcerative (chronic) enterocolitis; K51.8 -Other 
ulcerative colitis; K51.9 - Ulcerative colitis, unspecified.colitis; K51.9 - Ulcerative colitis, unspecified.
K70.0 To K74.6 Fibrosis and cirrhosis of liver; K71.7 - Toxic liver 70.0 To K74.6 Fibrosis and cirrhosis of liver; K71.7 - Toxic liver 
disease with fibrosis and cirrhosis of liver; K70.3 - Alcoholic cirrhosis of with fibrosis and cirrhosis of liver; K70.3 - Alcoholic cirrhosis of 
liver; I98.2 - K70.-Alcoholic liver disease; Oesophageal varices in I98.2 - K70.-Alcoholic liver disease; Oesophageal varices in 
diseases classified elsewhere. K 70 to K 74.6 (Fibrosis, cirrhosis, classified elsewhere. K 70 to K 74.6 (Fibrosis, cirrhosis, 
alcoholic liver disease, CLD)liver disease, CLD)
K85-Acute pancreatitis; (Q 45.0 to Q 45.1) Congenital conditions of pancreatitis; (Q 45.0 to Q 45.1) Congenital conditions of 
pancreas, K 86.1 to K 86.8 - Chronic pancreatitisK 86.1 to K 86.8 - Chronic pancreatitis
N17-N19) Renal failure; I12.0 - Hypertensive renal disease with Renal failure; I12.0 - Hypertensive renal disease with 
renal failure; I12.9 Hypertensive renal disease without renal failure; failure; I12.9 Hypertensive renal disease without renal failure; 
I13.1 - Hypertensive heart and renal disease with renal failure; I13.2 - disease with renal failure; I13.2 - 
5
6
7
8
9
I49 Other cardiac arrhythmias, (I20-I25)Ischemic heart diseases, I50 Other cardiac arrhythmias, (I20-I25)Ischemic heart diseases, I50 
Heart failure, I42Cardiomyopathy; I05-I09 - Chronic rheumaticheart failure, I42Cardiomyopathy; I05-I09 - Chronic rheumaticheart 
diseases. • Q20  Congenital malformations of cardiac chambers iseases. • Q20  Congenital malformations of cardiac chambers 
and connections • Q21 Congenital malformations of cardiac septa • connections • Q21 Congenital malformations of cardiac septa • 
Q22 Congenital malformations of pulmonary and tricuspid valves • Congenital malformations of pulmonary and tricuspid valves • 
Q23 Congenital malformations of aortic and mitral valves • Q24  Other Congenital malformations of aortic and mitral valves • Q24  Other 
congenital malformations of heart• Q25 Congenital malformations of malformations of heart• Q25 Congenital malformations of 
great arteries • Q26 Congenital malformations of great veins • Q27  arteries • Q26 Congenital malformations of great veins • Q27  
Other congenital malformations of peripheral vascular system • Q28  congenital malformations of peripheral vascular system • Q28  
Other congenital malformations of circulatory system • I00-I02 Acute congenital malformations of circulatory system • I00-I02 Acute 
rheumatic fever • I05-I09 • Chronic rheumatic heart diseases fever • I05-I09 • Chronic rheumatic heart diseases 
Nonrheumatic mitral valve disorders mitral (valve): • disease onrheumatic mitral valve disorders mitral (valve): • disease 
(I05.9) • failure (I05.8) • stenosis (I05.0). When of unspecified cause • failure (I05.8) • stenosis (I05.0). When of unspecified cause 
Hepatitis B 
Alzheimer's Disease, Parkinson's Disease -                                           Disease, Parkinson's Disease -                                           
Loss of HearingHearing
Papulosquamous disorder of the skinous disorder of the skin
Avascular necrosis (osteonecrosis)vascular necrosis (osteonecrosis)
Demyelinating diseasedisease
10
111
12
13
14
15
Hypertensive heart and renal disease with both (congestive) heart ypertensive heart and renal disease with both (congestive) heart 
failure and renal failure; N99.0 - Post procedural renal failure; O08.4 - and renal failure; N99.0 - Post procedural renal failure; O08.4 - 
Renal failure following abortion and ectopic and molar pregnancy; O90.4 failure following abortion and ectopic and molar pregnancy; O90.4 
- Postpartum acute renal failure; P96.0 - Congenital renal failure. Postpartum acute renal failure; P96.0 - Congenital renal failure. 
Congenital malformations of the urinary system (Q 60 to Q64), malformations of the urinary system (Q 60 to Q64), 
diabetic nephropathy E14.2, N.083nephropathy E14.2, N.083
B16.0 - Acute hepatitis B with delta-agent (coinfection) with hepatic - Acute hepatitis B with delta-agent (coinfection) with hepatic 
coma; B16.1 – Acute hepatitis B with delta-agent (coinfection) without B16.1 – Acute hepatitis B with delta-agent (coinfection) without 
hepatic coma; B16.2 - Acute hepatitis B without delta-agent with epatic coma; B16.2 - Acute hepatitis B without delta-agent with 
hepatic coma; B16.9 –Acute hepatitis B without delta-agent and epatic coma; B16.9 –Acute hepatitis B without delta-agent and 
without hepatic coma; B17.0 –Acute delta- (super)infection of hepatitis B carrier; B18.0 -Chronic viral hepatitis hepatic coma; B17.0 –Acute delta- (super)infection of hepatitis B carrier; B18.0 -Chronic viral hepatitis 
B with delta-agent; B18.1 -Chronic viral hepatitis B without delta-agent;with delta-agent; B18.1 -Chronic viral hepatitis B without delta-agent;
G30.9 - Alzheimer's disease, unspecified; F00.9 - G30.9Dementia 30.9 - Alzheimer's disease, unspecified; F00.9 - G30.9Dementia 
in Alzheimer's disease, unspecified, G20 - Parkinson's disease.Alzheimer's disease, unspecified, G20 - Parkinson's disease.
H90.0 - Conductive hearing loss, bilateral; H90.1 - Conductive - Conductive hearing loss, bilateral; H90.1 - Conductive 
hearing loss, unilateral with unrestricted hearing on the earing loss, unilateral with unrestricted hearing on the 
contralateral side; H90.2 - Conductive hearing loss, ontralateral side; H90.2 - Conductive hearing loss, 
unspecified; H90.3 - Sensorineural hearing loss, bilateral; H90.4 - H90.3 - Sensorineural hearing loss, bilateral; H90.4 - 
Sensorineural hearing loss, unilateral with unrestricted hearing ensorineural hearing loss, unilateral with unrestricted hearing 
on the contralateral side; H90.6 - Mixed conductive and sensorineural the contralateral side; H90.6 - Mixed conductive and sensorineural 
hearing loss, bilateral; H90.7 - Mixed conductive and sensorineural loss, bilateral; H90.7 - Mixed conductive and sensorineural 
hearing loss, unilateral with unrestricted hearing on the earing loss, unilateral with unrestricted hearing on the 
contralateral side; H90.8 - Mixed conductive and sensorineural side; H90.8 - Mixed conductive and sensorineural 
hearing loss, unspecified; H91.0 - Ototoxic hearing loss; H91.9 - loss, unspecified; H91.0 - Ototoxic hearing loss; H91.9 - 
Hearing loss, unspecifiedloss, unspecified
L40 - L45 Papulosquamous disorder of the skin including psoriasis lichen - L45 Papulosquamous disorder of the skin including psoriasis lichen 
planus
M 87 to M 87.987 to M 87.9
G.35 to G 37to G 37
3940UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS40UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (20) Break----------------
 Areas of Jurisdiction  Office of the Insurance OmbudsmanAreas of Jurisdiction  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman
Annexure-B
The Contact details of Insurance Ombudsman Offices are as belowas below
Gujarat, UT of Dadra& Nagar Haveli,Daman and Diu. of Dadra& Nagar Haveli,Daman and Diu.
Assam,Meghalaya,Manipur,Meghalaya,Manipur,
Mizoram,Arunachal Pradesh,Nagaland and TripuraArunachal Pradesh,Nagaland and Tripura
Andhra Pradesh,Telangana and UT of Telangana and UT of 
Yanam- a part of UT of  Pondicherry.anam- a part of UT of  Pondicherry.
Rajasthan
Kerala, UT of (a) Lakshadweep, of (a) Lakshadweep,
(b) Mahe-a part of UT of Pondicherry.UT of Pondicherry.
West Bengal,est Bengal,
Andaman & Nicobar Islands, SikkimUT of Islands, SikkimUT of 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh: Laitpur, Pradesh: Laitpur, 
Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Hamirpur, Banda, Chitrakoot, Allahabad, 
Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, , Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, 
Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, ,Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, 
Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, , Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, 
Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, , Bahraich, Barabanki, Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, 
Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarnagar, Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarnagar, 
Sultanpur, Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, , Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, 
Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, 
Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar., Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar.
Karnataka
Chattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Odhisa
Punjab,Haryana,Himachal Pradesh,Jammu & Kashmir,Haryana,Himachal Pradesh,Jammu & Kashmir,
UT of Chandigarh of Chandigarh
Tamil Nadu,UT-Pondicherry amil Nadu,UT-Pondicherry 
Town and Karaikal (which are part of UT own and Karaikal (which are part of UT 
of Pondicherry)
Delhi
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,2nd floor, Ambica House, Near C.U. fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,2nd floor, Ambica House, Near C.U. 
Shah College, 5, Navyug Colony, Ashram Road, Ahmedabad - 380 001., Ashram Road, Ahmedabad - 380 001.
Tel.: 079 – 27546150/27546139Fax: 079-27546142Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.inel.: 079 – 27546150/27546139Fax: 079-27546142Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor,fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor,
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road,Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM).. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road,Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM).
Fax: 0361 - 2732937Tel.: 0361 - 2132204 / 2132205Email: Tel.: 0361 - 2132204 / 2132205Email: 
bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court",Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace, Hyderabad - 500 004.A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool,, "Moin Court",Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace, Hyderabad - 500 004.A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool,
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.inbimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in
Tel.: 040 - 65504123 / 23312122 Fax: 040 - 23376599el.: 040 - 65504123 / 23312122 Fax: 040 - 23376599
Jaipur - 302 005.Tel.: 0141 - 2740363Tel.: 0141 - 2740363
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor,Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,Bhawani Singh Marg,. Floor,Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,Bhawani Singh Marg,
Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in
Ernakulam - 682 015.
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.inbimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg.,fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg.,
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road,
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338Fax: 0484 - 2359336el.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338Fax: 0484 - 2359336
4, C.R. Avenue, Avenue, 
Fax : 033 - 22124341
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, Annexe, 4th Floor, 
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340 KOLKATA - 700 072. el.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340 KOLKATA - 700 072. 
Fax : 033 - 22124341Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340 Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340 
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,Annexe, 4th Floor, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in
4, C.R. Avenue, KOLKATA - 700 072. Avenue, KOLKATA - 700 072. 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19, Ground Floor, fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19, Ground Floor, 
19/19, 24th Main Road, JP Nagar,Ist Phase, Bengaluru – 560 078.Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049. Nagar,Ist Phase, Bengaluru – 560 078.Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049.
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.inbimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor,fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor,
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office,Near New Market, Bhopal – 462 003.Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202, Opp. Airtel Office,Near New Market, Bhopal – 462 003.Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202
Fax: 0755 - 2769203Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.inEmail: bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,62, Forest park,Bhubneshwar – 751 009.Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,62, Forest park,Bhubneshwar – 751 009.Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455
Fax: 0674 - 2596429Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.inEmail: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in
Fax: 0172 - 2708274Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.inEmail: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103,2nd Floor, Batra Building,fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103,2nd Floor, Batra Building,
Sector 17 – D, Chandigarh – 160 017.Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468
CHENNAI – 600 018.
Fax: 044 - 24333664
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor,453, Anna Salai, Teynampet,Akhtar Court, 4th Floor,453, Anna Salai, Teynampet,
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284el.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284
Fax: 011 - 232308581 - 23230858
Asaf Ali Road,New Delhi – 110 002.Ali Road,New Delhi – 110 002.
Tel.: 011 - 23239633 / 23237532el.: 011 - 23239633 / 23237532
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building,A, Universal Insurance Building,
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in
Annexure-B Ombudsman list
Tilak Marg, Relief Road,ilak Marg, Relief Road,
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.inbimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Ahmedabad – 380 001.Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06
AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor,,
Office of the Insurance Ombudsmanfice of the Insurance Ombudsman
Email:bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.inbimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19, Ground Floor, PID No. 57-27-N-19, Ground Floor, 
19/19, 24th Main Road, JP Nagar,Ist Phase, Bengaluru – 560 078. Nagar,Ist Phase, Bengaluru – 560 078.
BENGALURU - Smt. Neerja Shah
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049el.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office,Near New Market,, Opp. Airtel Office,Near New Market,
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202el.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202
BHOPAL - Shri Guru Saran ShrivastavaAL - Shri Guru Saran Shrivastava
Fax: 0755 - 2769203Email:Email:
bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in
Bhopal – 462 003.
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor,ihar Complex, 2nd Floor,
Email: 
BHUBANESHWAR - Shri Suresh Chandra Panda AR - Shri Suresh Chandra Panda 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,62, Forest park,Bhubneshwar – 751 009.Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,62, Forest park,Bhubneshwar – 751 009.Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455
Fax: 0674 - 2596429
bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in
CHANDIGARH - Dr. Dinesh Kumar VermaDr. Dinesh Kumar Verma
Fax: 0172 - 2708274
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103,2nd Floor, Batra Building,fice of the Insurance Ombudsman, S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103,2nd Floor, Batra Building,
Sector 17 – D, Chandigarh–160 017.Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.inbimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in
CHENNAI -
Fax: 044 - 24333664
Shri M. Vasantha Krishnaasantha Krishna
CHENNAI – 600 018.
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor,fice of the Insurance Ombudsman, Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor,
453, Anna Salai, Teynampet,Teynampet,
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284el.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.inbimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in
Gujarat, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu.& Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu.
Karnataka
Chattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh,Pradesh,
Orissa
Haryana,
Himachal Pradesh,Pradesh,
Punjab,
Jammu & Kashmir,Kashmir,
Chandigarh
Pondicherry Town and Town and 
Karaikal (which are part of Pondicherry).are part of Pondicherry).
Tamil Nadu,amil Nadu,
10/3/2019
4/23/2018
5/24/2018
9/11/20191/2019
4/16/2018
5/3/2018
Office DetailsJurisdiction of Office Union Territory,Jurisdiction of Office Union Territory,
District)
Date Of Taking Taking 
Charge
4142UIN: RELHLGP21523V02202142UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building,A, Universal Insurance Building,
DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi – 110 002.Ali Road, New Delhi – 110 002.
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.inTel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road,. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road,
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205el.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205
GUWAHATI - Shri Kiriti .B. SahaAHATI - Shri Kiriti .B. Saha
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor,,
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Guwahati – 781001 (ASSAM).
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool,
HYDERABAD - Shri I. Suresh BabuShri I. Suresh Babu
Hyderabad - 500 004.Tel.: 040 - 67504123 / 23312122.Tel.: 040 - 67504123 / 23312122.
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court",fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court",
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace, 
Email:bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.inFax: 040 - 23376599bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.inFax: 040 - 23376599
JAIPUR - Smt. Sandhya BaligaOffice of the Insurance Ombudsman,Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor,Bhawani Singh Marg,Jaipur - 302 005.Tel.: 0141 - 2740363. Floor,Bhawani Singh Marg,Jaipur - 302 005.Tel.: 0141 - 2740363
Email: Bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in Bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in 
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338Fax: 0484 - 2359336el.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338Fax: 0484 - 2359336
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.inbimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., fice of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., 
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road, Ernakulam - 682 015.Ernakulam - 682 015.
ERNAKULAM -Ms. Poonam Bodra Ms. Poonam Bodra 
KOLKATA - Shri P. K. RathOffice of the Insurance Ombudsman,TA - Shri P. K. RathOffice of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Fax : 033 - 22124341Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.inEmail: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, Annexe, 4th Floor, 
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340 4, C.R. Avenue, KOLKATA - 700072.el.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340 4, C.R. Avenue, KOLKATA - 700072.
Mumbai - 400 054. Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960 Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),. Road, Santacruz (W),
MUMBAI - Shri Milind A. KharatShri Milind A. Kharat
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, , Jeevan Seva Annexe, 
Fax: 022 - 26106052Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in 
Delhi
Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Meghalaya, Manipur, 
Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Tripura.Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Tripura.
Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Pradesh, Telangana, 
Yanam andpart of Territory anam andpart of Territory 
of Pondicherry..
Rajasthan
Kerala,Lakshadweep, Lakshadweep, 
Mahe-a part of Pondicherry.Mahe-a part of Pondicherry.Pondicherry.Mahe-a part of Pondicherry.
West Bengal, Sikkim, Andaman & Nicobar Islands.est Bengal, Sikkim, Andaman & Nicobar Islands.
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane.Mumbai & Thane.
Goa, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Metropolitan Region 
9/12/2019
5/2/2018
6/11/20181/2018
4/13/2018
11/7/20181/7/2018
9/30/2019
5/4/2018
GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (21) Break----------------
Goa, 
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane.Mumbai & Thane.
Mumbai Metropolitan Region Region 
State of Uttaranchal and the following Districts of Uttar Pradesh:and the following Districts of Uttar Pradesh:
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, 
Bijnor, Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, , Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, 
Kanooj, Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad, Gautambodhanagar, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad, Gautambodhanagar, 
Ghaziabad, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, 
Rampur, Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, , Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, 
Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur.Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur.
Bihar,Jharkhand.,Jharkhand.
Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane excluding and Thane excluding 
Mumbai Metropolitan Region.Region.
Maharashtra,
The updated details of Insurance Ombudsman are available on IRDA website: www.irdai.gov.in, on the website of General updated details of Insurance Ombudsman are available on IRDA website: www.irdai.gov.in, on the website of General 
Insurance Council: www.gicouncil.in, our website www.reliancegeneral.co.in nsurance Council: www.gicouncil.in, our website www.reliancegeneral.co.in 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, . Road, Santacruz (W),3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, 
Fax: 022 - 26106052
Mumbai - 400 054.Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.inbimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in
Naya Bans, Sector 15,
Bhagwan Sahai Palace 
U.P-201301.
4th Floor, Main Road,, Main Road,
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar,,
Tel.: 0120-2514250 / 2514252 / 2514253el.: 0120-2514250 / 2514252 / 2514253
Email: bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in
Patna 800 006.
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,Bazar Samiti Road,,Kalpana Arcade Building,, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,Bazar Samiti Road,
Bahadurpur,,
Tel.: 0612-2680952Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.inel.: 0612-2680952Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,fice of the Insurance Ombudsman,Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth,Pune – 411 030.Pune – 411 030.
Tel.: 020-41312555Email: bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.inel.: 020-41312555Email: bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198,.S. No.s. 195 to 198,
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II,, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II,
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, Lucknow - 226 001. Lucknow - 226 001. 
Fax: 0522 - 2231310Email:Email:
bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331el.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331
LUCKNOW - Shri Justice Anil Kumar Shri Justice Anil Kumar 
SrivastavaOffice of the Insurance Ombudsman,Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar PrasadOffice of the Insurance  - Shri Chandra Shekhar PrasadOffice of the Insurance 
Ombudsman,Bhagwan Sahai Palace 4th Floor, Main Road,Bhagwan Sahai Palace 4th Floor, Main Road,
U.P-201301.Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar,Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar,
Naya Bans, Sector 15,
Tel.: 0120-2514250 / 2514252 / 2514253el.: 0120-2514250 / 2514252 / 2514253
Email: bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in 
9/11/20191/2019
9/17/2019State of Uttaranchal and the following Districts of Uttar Pradesh:State of Uttaranchal and the following Districts of Uttar Pradesh:
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, 
Bijnor, Budaun, Bulandshehar, , Budaun, Bulandshehar, 
Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad, Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad, Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, 
Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, 
Rampur, Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, , Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, 
Saharanpur..
Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, , Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, 
Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, 
Pratapgarh, Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, 
Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, , Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, 
Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, , Bahraich, Barabanki, Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, 
Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarnagar, Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarnagar, 
Sultanpur, Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, , Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, 
Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, 
Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar., Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar.
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,, ,Kalpana Arcade Building,, 
PATNA - Shri N. K. SinghOffice of the Insurance Ombudsman,ATNA - Shri N. K. SinghOffice of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Bazar Samiti Road,Bahadurpur,Bahadurpur,
Patna 800 006.Tel.: 0612-2680952Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in Tel.: 0612-2680952Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in 
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth,
Tel.: 020-41312555el.: 020-41312555
PUNE - Shri Vinay SahOffice of the Insurance Ombudsman,inay SahOffice of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Pune – 411 030.1 030.
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198,,C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198,
Email: bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in 
Jharkhand.Bihar,harkhand.Bihar,
excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region.Mumbai Metropolitan Region.
Maharashtra,Area of Navi Area of Navi 
Mumbai and ThaneThane
10/9/2019
12/3/2019
4344UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS44UIN: RELHLGP21523V022021GROUP MEDICAIM POLICY WORDINGS
----------------Page (22) Break----------------
